

=== Article I ===

Town of Mamaroneck outside of incorporated villages, and whenever and wherever the words "Town of Mamaroneck" are used, such words shall mean the Town of Mamaroneck outside of incorporated villages.

As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:

No person shall locate radios or similar devices or amplifiers thereof so as to or that may project sound into highways or neighborhoods for advertising or business purposes; and no person owning, occupying or having charge of any building or premises or any part thereof in the Town of Mamaroneck shall cause, suffer or allow any loud, excessive or unusual noise in the operation or use of any radio, phonograph or other mechanical or electrical or reproducing device, instrument or machine, which loud, excessive and unusual noise shall disturb the comfort, peace and quiet of persons in the vicinity. The playing, using, operating or permitting to be played, used or operated of any radio, receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound, which is cast upon the public streets from any sound truck or vehicle, for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the attention of the public, shall be unlawful and is hereby prohibited.

No steam whistle or other whistle or horn or other instrument for making a noise which is operated by steam or any other power shall be blown or operated within the limits of the Town of Mamaroneck at any hour of the day or night, except only the alarm of vehicles of the Fire and Police Departments, all fire and burglar alarms and the alarm of automobiles, bicycles or motorcycles while actually traveling through the Town and except also church and school bells. The alarm of automobiles, bicycles and motorcycles shall not be operated continuously but only with sufficient frequency to warn persons of their approach. The use of sirens on motor vehicles and bicycles within the Town limits is hereby prohibited. No motor vehicle shall be operated in the Town unless it is provided with a proper and suitable muffler, and such muffler shall not be opened at any time while said motor vehicle is in operation.

No person shall operate or permit to be operated any power tool or equipment, including but not limited to saws, sanders, drills, grinders, tractors, chain saws, lawn or garden tools, mowers, leaf blowers or gatherers or similar devices or wood chippers of any kind, when used outdoors in a residentially zoned district as provided in § 141-7 below.

All noises that menace the health or disturb the peace and quiet of the Town are prohibited at any time of the day or night.

Except under emergency circumstances and with the exception of the operations of the Town government, no person, firm or corporation may operate any machine, construction equipment or other similar device that makes noise which carries beyond the boundaries of the property on which it is located or being used or, if a part of a multifamily dwelling, the confines of the dwelling unit, between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. Monday through Friday, not before 9:00 a.m. and not after 6:00 p.m. on Saturdays and not before 9:00 a.m. and not after 5:00 p.m. on Sundays, nor may any such device be operated on a public road except for the purposes of transporting the same from one place to another.

Any person or persons, association, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty of an offense and shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $250 or by imprisonment for not more than 15 days, or both.



=== Article II ===

in the zoning districts of the unincorporated area of the Town, other than the Recreation District: R, before 8:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m. on any weekday and before 10:00 a.m. or after 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays, Sundays and on New Year's Day, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, Presidents Day, Memorial Day, Juneteenth, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day shall be unlawful.

In the case of a severe weather or non-weather-related event, the Supervisor, in such official's sole and unfettered discretion, may suspend this article for such period of time as the Supervisor deems necessary or desirable to protect the overall welfare of the residents of the unincorporated area of the Town.

A person shall be guilty of an offense if such person operates any power tool in violation of any provision of this article.

A person shall be guilty of an offense if such person employs a person to operate any power tool and that person operates such tool or equipment in violation of any provision of this article.

A person who owns or leases property where a violation of this article occurs shall be guilty of an offense.

In any prosecution under this article, it is an affirmative defense that the person who owns the property where a violation of this article occurs:

Entered into an agreement with a tenant of such property that either allows the tenant to engage, or places upon the tenant the responsibility to engage persons to operate any power tool; and

Did not engage the persons who used such tool or equipment on the date and at the time specified in the summons issued to the owner.

In any prosecution under this article, it is an affirmative defense that the person who leases the property where a violation of this article occurs:

Did not enter into an agreement with the owner of such property that either allows the tenant to engage, or places upon the tenant the responsibility to engage persons to operate any power tool; and

Did not engage the persons who used such tool or equipment on the date and at the time specified in the summons issued to the tenant.

A person convicted of an offense under this article shall be punished as follows:

For the first offense during a calendar year, with a fine of not less than $125 and not more than $250;

For a second offense during the same calendar year, with a fine of not less than $250 and not more than $500; and

For additional offenses during the same calendar year, with a fine of $500 for each such offense.