Chapter 180 Leaf Blowers

The Village of Larchmont finds and declares that leaf blowers represent a significant source of environmental pollution in the form of high and low-frequency noise, carbon and noncarbon emissions, and dust particulate, which represent a present and increasing threat to the public peace and to the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the Village and its visitors. Noise generated by leaf blowers has the effect of interfering with the psychological well-being of persons, as leaf blowers generate low-frequency noise at high decibel levels, exposure to which is recognized to generate more severe adverse health effects when compared to high frequency noises, including hearing loss, tinnitus, reduced cognitive performance, heart disease, and hypertension. Additionally, leaf blowers of both an internal combustion and electric design displace significant amounts of particulate matter, spreading pollen, mold, chemical pesticides, and other fine particulates. Internal-combustion leaf blowers are also recognized as hyper-polluters, emitting significant carbon and noncarbon emissions in greater magnitudes than automobiles over similar operating periods. Accordingly, it is the policy of the Village to regulate the use of all leaf blowers to minimize and mitigate the harmful impacts of their use.

As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:

No internal combustion leaf blower shall be operated in the Village of Larchmont at any time after January 1, 2022. Until such date, no internal combustion leaf blower may be operated in the Village of Larchmont without a properly functioning muffler.

A leaf blower, whether it be an internal combustion leaf blower (prior to their absolute prohibition) or an electric leaf blower, may be operated in the Village of Larchmont only during the following periods of the year: March 15 through April 30; October 15 through December 15. The operation of leaf blowers is prohibited on all other days of the year unless specifically provided herein.

During the months when leaf blowers are permitted to be operated in the Village of Larchmont, they may only be operated during the following hours:

Monday through Friday, excluding holidays: between 8:00 a.m. and 5:30 p.m.

Saturday: between 10:00 a.m. and 5:30 p.m.

Sundays and holidays: property owners only between 10:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.

In the event of a hurricane, tropical storm, or similar extreme weather event, the Mayor of the Village of Larchmont, in their sole discretion, may temporarily suspend provisions of this chapter to allow the use of leaf blowers for debris cleanup.

Responsible parties. The following parties shall have committed a violation of this law if it is not complied with:

The party operating the leaf blower; and

The party who employed the person to operate the leaf blower at the time of violation; and

The party who owns the property where the violation occurs.

Penalties. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to fine upon conviction thereof, not exceeding $250 for the first offense, $500 for the second offense, and $1,000 for the third offense and any subsequent offenses. Conviction for violation of this law shall be deemed a violation, not a misdemeanor nor a felony.