City of Rye, NY


info

The Code

Part II: General Legislation

Chapter 157 Sanitary Regulations

Article VII Weeds





Get Updates

Article VII

Weeds 

§ 157-52

Cutting and removal. 

§ 157-53

Duty of owner. 

§ 157-54

Performance of work by City; costs. 

§ 157-52

Cutting and removal. 

It shall be unlawful for any owner of any lot
or land in the City to permit or maintain on any such lot or land
or on or along the sidewalk or street adjacent to the same between
the property line and the curb or middle of the street, or for 10
feet outside the property line, if there be no curb, any growth of
weeds, grass or other rank vegetation to a greater height than 12
inches on the average, or any accumulation of dead weeds, grass or
brush. It shall also be unlawful for any owner to cause, suffer or
allow poison ivy, ragweed or other poisonous plants or plants detrimental
to health to grow on any such lot or land in such manner that any
part of such ivy, ragweed or other poisonous or harmful weed shall
extend upon, overhang or border any public place, or allow seed, pollen
or other poisonous particles or emanations therefrom to be carried
through the air into any public place.

§ 157-53

Duty of owner. 

It shall be the duty of the owner of any lot
or land to cut and remove or cause to be cut and removed all such
weeds, grass or other rank, poisonous or harmful vegetation as often
as may be necessary to comply with the provisions of the preceding
section, provided that cutting and removing such weeds, grass and
vegetation at least once in every three weeks between May 15 and September
15 shall be deemed to be a compliance with this article; and provided
further that the provisions herein contained for the complete clearance
from land of grass, weeds and other poisonous or harmful vegetation
shall apply only to lots or plots of one acre or less, and as to all
other parcels, there must be a minimum clearance of 150 feet from
street lines and 100 feet from adjacent property lines.

§ 157-54

Performance of work by City; costs. 

If the provisions of the foregoing sections
are not complied with, the Clerk shall serve written notice by mail
upon the owner of any such lot or land to comply with the provisions
of this article. If the person upon whom the notice is served fails,
neglects or refuses to cut and remove or cause to be cut and removed
such weeds, grass or other vegetation within five days after service
of such notice, or if no person can be found in the City who either
is or claims to be the owner of such lot or land or who either represents
or claims to represent such owner, the Engineer shall cause such weeds,
grass and other vegetation on such lot or land to be cut and removed
and keep a record of the cost thereof, and the actual cost of such
cutting and removal, plus the reasonable cost for inspection and other
additional costs in connection therewith, shall be certified by the
Engineer to the Assessor of the City and shall thereupon become and
be a lien upon the property on which such weeds, grass or other vegetation
were located, and shall be added to and become and form part of the
taxes next to be assessed and levied upon such lot or land and shall
bear interest at the same rate as taxes and shall be collected and
enforced in the same manner as taxes. The assessment of the cost for
the work done by the City against the property involved shall be in
addition to the penalties imposed herein for any violation of or noncompliance
with any provision of this chapter or any rule, regulation, order
or special direction duly made thereunder.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.