Village of Scarsdale, NY


info

Part II General Legislation

Chapter 281 Trees, Grass, Brush and Weeds

Article III Infestations, Poisonous, Harmful Weeds and Plants





Get Updates

Article III

Infestations, Poisonous, Harmful Weeds and Plants 

§ 281-14

Unlawful to allow infestations. 

§ 281-15

Duty of owners to correct. 

§ 281-16

Action by Village. 

§ 281-17

Penalties for offenses. 

§ 281-14

Unlawful to allow infestations. 

A. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any land in the Village to
maintain or permit to remain thereon harmful flora or fauna which
is likely to cause destruction of or damage to trees or shrubs or
create a potential hazard or a public nuisance, including prohibited
species listed on the Prohibited and Regulated Invasive Species plant
lists of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.

B. It shall also be unlawful for the owner of any land
in the Village to maintain or permit to remain thereon any poisonous
or harmful weed or plant that is likely to spread to other properties
or become a public nuisance.

§ 281-15

Duty of owners to correct. 

It shall be the duty of the owner of any land in the Village containing harmful flora, fauna or poisonous or harmful weed or plant which violates § 281-14 to destroy or cause to be destroyed such harmful flora or fauna or poisonous or harmful weed or plant.

§ 281-16

Action by Village. 

In case any owner of land in the Village fails
to comply with the provisions of this article, the Village Engineer
shall issue a notice of correction by regular mail or in person, directing
such owner(s) to comply with the provisions of this article.

§ 281-17

Penalties for offenses. 

Any person committing an offense against any provision of this Article III shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a violation pursuant to the Penal Law of the State of New York, punishable by a fine not exceeding $250. The continuation of an offense against the provisions of this article shall constitute, for each day the offense is continued, a separate and distinct offense hereunder.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.