City of Mount Vernon, NY


info

The Code

Part II General Legislation

Chapter 252 Trees





Get Updates

Chapter 252

Trees 

[HISTORY: Adopted by the Council of the City of Mount Vernon 11-13-1957 as Ch. 46
of the General Ordinances, approved 11-15-1957; amended in its entirety 12-14-2022, approved 12-15-2022.
Subsequent amendments noted where applicable.]

§ 252-1

Purpose. 

§ 252-2

Definitions. 

§ 252-3

Regulation of trees in public places. 

§ 252-4

Maintenance responsibilities of owners and occupants and removal of trees located on private property. 

§ 252-5

Tree removal permitting procedure. 

§ 252-6

Removal of trees on private property under review by a City land use board. 

§ 252-7

Subdivision, site plan and special use permit review. 

§ 252-8

Certificate of appropriateness review. 

§ 252-9

Determination by approving authority for removal of trees on private property. 

§ 252-10

Replacement of trees removed or proposed to be removed from private property in accordance with permit. 

§ 252-11

Suspension or revocation of permit for removal of trees on private property. 

§ 252-12

Completion. 

§ 252-13

Inspection. 

§ 252-14

Appeals. 

§ 252-15

Emergency removal. 

§ 252-16

Enforcement; penalties for offenses. 

§ 252-17

Mount Vernon Tree Advisory Board. 

§ 252-18

Mount Vernon Tree Fund Escrow Account. 

§ 252-19

Severability. 

§ 252-1

Purpose. 

A. In accordance with Article 5, § 96-b, of New York State's
General Municipal Law, the City of Mount Vernon, historically recognized
as a "City of Trees," seeks to protect and conserve all natural features
of our great City, which add environmental, aesthetic and economic
value to residential, commercial, and industrial districts within
our City, both public and private. Citizens of Mount Vernon, New York,
have a vital interest in the planting and preservation of trees within
our City's borders.

B. The green infrastructure of trees and their ecosystems supply important
benefits. Trees, their leafy canopies and spreading root systems,
provide aesthetic appeal, shade, impede soil erosion, aid water absorption
and retention, inhibit excess runoff and flooding, and preserve the
balance of oxygen in the air by removing carbon dioxide and fostering
air quality. Trees offer a natural barrier to noise, provide natural
habitat for wildlife, yield advantageous microclimatic effects, provide
screening, enhance property values, and add to the aesthetic quality
of the community.

C. The City finds that destructive and indiscriminate removal of trees
causes increased municipal costs for proper drainage control, impairs
the benefits of occupancy of existing residential properties, decreases
the stability and value of both improved and unimproved real property
in the area of destruction, and adversely affects the health, safety,
and general welfare of the inhabitants of the City.

D. The City, furthermore, concurs with the findings and mandate of the
New York State Environmental Quality Review Act; among them being
the obligation of the City to serve as a steward of air, water, land,
and living resources and the obligation to protect the environment.
It is the intent of the City to recognize these responsibilities by
adhering to these procedures as well as fostering and preserving the
health and welfare of the community of Mount Vernon.

E. All City employees, departments and agencies are to abide by the
provisions stated herein and are to be bound by these same provisions
for the maintenance and preservation of trees. "The City" refers to
all elected and/or appointed officers and agents responsible, in concert,
for the governance, administration and delivery of services to taxpaying
residents. "The City," as a reference, includes the Mayor, the City
Council, the Zoning Board, the Planning Board, the Commissioners of
Public Works, of Planning and Community Development and of Buildings
and their departments, the City Tree Surgeon, workers, contracted
tree specialists and the Mount Vernon Tree Advisory Board.

F. The City's intent in setting up a tree ordinance containing
sufficient guidelines, rules, restrictions and strong enforcement
procedures is to establish a method to minimize any unnecessary damage
and prevent any willful or unwitting destruction to our arbors. This
chapter, hereby, is meant to provide, in the minimum, some basic standards
to help the City protect and preserve the valuable inheritance and
benefits of trees as community assets.

§ 252-2

Definitions. 

Terms as used in this chapter have the following meaning(s):

APPLICANT
Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, organization, or other legal entity of any kind, excluding
the City of Mount Vernon and its governmental agencies, who request
the approval authority to issue a permit, or to whom a permit has
been granted under the provisions of this chapter.

APPROVING AUTHORITY
The City agencies or public officials empowered to administer
the permit procedures of this chapter, as described therein.

BUFFER
An area of natural vegetation or man-made construction that
is intended to provide a visual and dimensional separation between
dissimilar land uses.

NATURAL BUFFERA visual screen created by vegetation of such density so as to present an opaque visual separation when viewed from one side to the other throughout the year.

STRUCTURAL BUFFERA visual screen created through construction of a solid wooden fence, decorative masonry wall, earthen berm, or combination of fence or wall with an earthen berm, which may be supplemented with vegetation, so as to present an opaque visual separation when viewed from one side to the other throughout the year.

CALIPER
The measurement of the diameter of a tree trunk, measured
at six inches above root crown. When measuring the caliper of mature
trees, this measurement is done at 4.5 feet above natural grade [referred
to as "diameter breast height (DBH)"; see definition below].

CERTIFIED ARBORIST
An arborist certified by the International Society of Arborists
(ISA) or another nationally recognized arboricultural organization,
including, but not limited to, an existing employee with certification.

CITY TREE SURGEON
A trained forester who has charge of the scientific planting,
removing, and trimming of all City trees. The surgeon's tree
maintenance practices will be consistent with up-to-date arboricultural
standards. This could be a certified arborist.

CLEAR-CUTTING
The act of removal or destruction of more than two trees
within any City lot, both public and private.

DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT (DBH)
Measurement of the diameter of a mature tree at 4.5 feet
above natural grade. Diameter = circumference/3.1416 and circumference
= diameter/3.1416.

DRAINAGE
The gravitational movement of water or other liquids by surface
runoff or surface flow.

EMERGENCY
A serious situation or occurrence that happens unexpectedly
and demands immediate action.

ENDANGERED OR THREATENED TREE
A tree listed as endangered or threatened on the New York
protected native species list, 6 NYCRR 193.3, and/or the Westchester
County list of endangered plants.

EROSION
The wearing away of the land surface by action of wind, water,
gravity, or other natural forces.

HARDSHIP
A unique or otherwise special existing condition that is
not addressed by the chapter.

HERITAGE TREE
An individual tree with unique value, which is considered
irreplaceable. The major criteria for this designation are age, rarity
and size, as well as aesthetic, botanical, ecological, cultural and
historic value.

INJURIOUS SUBSTANCE
Brine water, oil, liquid dye or any other substance deleterious
to tree life.

INVASIVE SPECIES
A species of plant or animal that is not native to the ecosystem
under consideration and whose introduction into the ecosystem causes,
or is likely to cause, economic or environmental harm to human health,
as identified by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.

INVASIVE VINES
Fast-growing vines that are detrimental (stranglers) to native
vegetation and trees, including, but not limited to, oriental bittersweet,
porcelain berry or others, as identified by the New York State Department
of Environmental Conservation.

LAND USE BOARDS
Independent bodies that make decisions regarding land use
in the City under the enabling authority given under the State of
New York, county, and/or local law. These include the Architectural
Review Board, Zoning Board of Appeals and the Planning Board.

LANDSCAPE PLAN
A design for the exterior landscape of a property that includes
the size, type, and location of trees, shrubs, and other natural elements,
and may include grading, tree removal, and tree preservation measures
and is reviewed and approved by a land use board.

LOT
Any separately designated parcel as shown on the City Tax
Maps.

MEMORIAL TREE
A tree commemorating a person, location or event.

NONPUBLIC (PRIVATE) PROPERTY
Any property owned by a private individual or entity.

ORDINARY HOMEOWNER
An individual(s) holding the title to the property, the owner
of an owner-occupied residence.

OWNER
An individual or entity holding title to property (includes
a lessee).

PERMITTED TREES
Trees identified as suitable for planting that are included
on the list developed and maintained by the Commissioner of Public
Works and the City Tree Surgeon.

PUBLIC PLACE/PROPERTY
Any land or space owned by the City of Mount Vernon or any
other governmental entity, including a park, sidewalk, walkway, pathway,
street, road, highway or any other public right-of-way as defined
herein.

PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
Each street, road or highway, as the same is defined by the
Highway Law of the State of New York, as from time to time amended,
which is owned, controlled or otherwise subject to the jurisdiction
of the City.

PUBLIC TREE
Any tree growing in any public place, property or right-of-way.

REMOVAL
An act that causes or may reasonably be expected to cause
a tree to die, including:

Uprooting;

Severing the main trunk;

Damaging the root system;

Excessive pruning; and

Removal of bark.

REPLACEMENT TREE
A tree of at least three inches DBH, planted for the purpose
of replacing a significant tree, in accordance with the terms of a
granted permit, when a project requires City Planning Board approval.

SIGNIFICANT TREE
A tree that is protected under this chapter when it either:

Has reached maturity, defined as, measuring 10 inches in diameter
(31 inches circumference) or greater, at breast height (DBH), measured
at 4.5 feet above natural grade level; or

Has reached 75% of its maturity; or

Is an endangered or threatened tree, as defined under the definition of "endangered or threatened tree" in this § 252-2; or

Is a heritage tree, as defined under the definition of "heritage tree" in this § 252-2, or a memorial tree, as defined under the definition of "memorial tree" in this § 252-2.

TREE
A tree is generally defined as a woody perennial plant, typically
having a single stem or trunk growing to a height of at least 13 feet
at maturity and bearing lateral branches at some distance from the
ground.

§ 252-3

Regulation of trees in public places. 

A. Permit required. It is unlawful for any individual, entity, corporation,
utility company, telecommunications company, electric company, gas
company or organization to pot or plant any tree upon any part of
any public property or City park without first obtaining from the
Commissioner of Public Works a written permit to do so, and without
complying in all respects with the conditions set forth in this chapter
and in such written permit.

B. Cutting and pruning. It is unlawful for any individual, entity, corporation,
utility company, telecommunications company, electric company, gas
company or organization, without the written permit of the Commissioner
of Public Works, to cut, break, injure or misuse any tree or shrub
planted or growing in any public property, or to remove any device
set for the protection of any tree, shrub or plant in any public property
or City park. Utilities, or their agents, responsible for maintaining
rights-of-way in the City shall follow the tree maintenance practices
established by the International Society of Arboriculture (ISA). Utilities
performing work at street level or below shall take reasonable precautions
against inflicting injury to any tree and/or its roots. A written
permit from the Department of Public Works is necessary for any person
desiring for any lawful purpose to cut, prune or trim any tree in
any public property.

C. Destruction or removal. It is prohibited for any individual, entity,
corporation, utility company, telecommunications company, electric
company, gas company or organization to kill or remove, or cause,
authorize or procure the death or removal of, any tree planted or
growing in any public street, or any tree or shrub planted or growing
in any City park or public place, without first making an application
to the Commissioner of Public Works and obtaining a written permit
therefor.

D. Injurious substances. It is prohibited for any individual, entity,
corporation, utility company, telecommunications company, electric
company, gas company or organization to cause, authorize or procure
any brine water, oil, liquid dye or other substance deleterious to
tree life to lie, leak, pour, flow or drip on or into the soil about
the base of a tree in any public property or City park, or onto a
sidewalk, road, street or pavement therein at a point where such substance
may in any manner injure such tree.

E. Planting and maintenance.

(1) It is prohibited, except with the written permit of the Commissioner
of Public Works, to place or maintain upon the ground in any public
property any stone, cement or other material or substance in such
manner as may obstruct the free access of air and water to the roots
of any tree in any such property. Unless otherwise provided for in
such written permit as above stated, there must be maintained about
the base of the trunk of each tree in the public streets and City
parks at least six square feet of open ground for a tree of three
inches in diameter, and for every two inches of increase of such diameter
there must be an increase of at least one square foot of open ground.
However, no violation of this section is deemed to exist until 30
days after a specific written notice has been served by the Commissioner
of Public Works.

(2) No permit for planting trees is to be provided where the soil is
too poor to ensure the growth of the tree, unless the applicant or
owner agrees to excavate a suitable hole of not less than 36 cubic
feet and to replace the material removed with suitable good loam.

(3) No tree is to be planted measuring less than 2 1/2 inches in
diameter of trunk one foot aboveground. The trunk of each tree shall
be without branches not less than seven feet, but no more than 9.5
feet, from the ground.

(4) It is the duty of every property owner and occupant to maintain the
planting strip. Such planting strip is to be located adjacent to,
and extend along the entire length of, the curb of the street.

F. Interference with Public Works employees. It is prohibited to interfere
or cause or authorize any interference with the Commissioner of Public
Works or any of his employees, agents or workers while they are engaged
in and about the planting, cultivating, pruning, spraying or removing
of any tree in any public street or City park, or in the removing
of any device attached to said tree as may be necessary for the protection
and care of any such tree in accordance with the requirements set
forth under this chapter, excluding any and all prior contracts.

G. Placement of wires and poles. It is prohibited for any person to
cause or authorize a wire or other conductor charged with electricity
to come into contact with any tree on public property in such manner
as may injure or destroy such tree, or to locate, place or maintain
any pole or post in such manner as to interfere with any tree or shrub
growing upon any public street, park or public place.

H. Protective devices and precautions.

(1) It is prohibited to attach or keep attached to any tree on public
property, or to any guard or stake intended for the protection of
such tree, any rope, wire or sign or any other device which may injure
the tree in any manner or detract from the usefulness of the guard
or stake.

(2) In case of improvements to any premises in front of which there are
trees, the owner and contractor making such improvements is to protect
the trunks of said trees to the height of five feet with boards before
such work is commenced, all to the satisfaction of the Commissioner
of Public Works.

I. Damage by animals. It is prohibited to tie any animal to any tree
on public property or to allow such animal to injure any tree.

§ 252-4

Maintenance responsibilities of owners and occupants and removal of trees located on private property. 

A. Maintenance responsibilities include:

(1) Tree pruning that does not damage the basic nature of the tree and
does not reduce the size of the tree by more than 1/4.

(2) In the case of trees standing on any lot or land having branches
or roots which project over or underneath an adjacent lot, sidewalk
or roadway, the owner of the adjacent lot must notify the owner of
the tree, so the owner of the tree may trim said branches or roots
in order that the branches not adversely interfere with said adjacent
lot, and said trimming does not adversely affect the viability or
overall appearance of the trees. In the case that the owner of the
tree does not resolve the issue within 30 days, the owner of the adjacent
lot may notify the Department of Buildings for relief in the form
of a citation, or may then trim said branches or roots in order that
the branches not adversely interfere with said adjacent lot, and said
trimming does not adversely affect the viability of the trees.

(3) Control of infested trees, shrubs, and bushes, and control of invasive
vines. It is prohibited to permit or allow to remain in the City of
Mount Vernon any tree, shrub or bush or part thereof which is infested
with fungi, caterpillars, insects, worms, maggots, parasites, larvae
or grub of lepidopterous insects or other creeping segmented animals
which cause destruction or damage to trees, shrubs or bushes and spread
by passing to other trees, shrubs or bushes, thereby causing destruction
of or damage to property of others and becoming a public nuisance.

(a) 
Required removal by private property owner(s). The Commissioner of Public Works or the City Tree Surgeon has the authority to require the owner of any tree or vegetation in violation of Subsection A(3) hereof to take down said tree and remove the same.

(b) 
It is the duty of the owner of any such infested tree, shrub
or bush in the City, upon notification by the Commissioner of Public
Works, for the owner to destroy all such fungi, caterpillars, insects,
worms, maggots, parasites, larvae or grub of lepidopterous insects
or other creeping segmented animals which infest any tree, shrub or
bush or part thereof on such land or to destroy the infested tree,
shrub or bush or part thereof, including invasive vegetation.

Failure to comply.

[1] 
In case the owner of any such tree, shrub or bush fails to remove
the same within 30 days after written notice to do so has been served
upon him, either personally or by delivering the same at his last
known place of residence, or, if he be a nonresident, by mailing the
same to him at his last known place of residence, or, if the name
of the owner or his place of residence cannot be ascertained after
due diligence, by posting the same in a conspicuous place upon the
premises where the tree, shrub or bush is found, the Commissioner
of Public Works or City Tree Surgeon shall have said tree, shrub or
bush removed and destroyed.

[2] 
The Commissioner of Public Works or City Tree Surgeon may, upon
the completion of the work of such removal and destruction, send to
the owner of the property upon which said work has been done whose
name appears on the last assessment roll, a bill for the value of
the work done if the Department of Public Works does such work. In
the event that the Department of Public Works hires a private concern
to do such work, a bill for the actual amount charged by the private
concern for the work is to be sent to such owner. Such bill may be
sent by regular mail or be personally served, which bill will be paid
by such owner to the City of Mount Vernon's Comptroller.

[3] 
In the event such bill is not paid by the owner within 30 business days after receipt by the owner, the Commissioner of Public Works will, with respect to each separately owned parcel of property where such work has been done, certify such expense to the City Council of the City of Mount Vernon. Such amount may thereupon be chargeable and become a lien upon such parcel of property and be levied, collected and enforced in the same manner, by the same proceedings, and under the same penalties as an assessment for a public improvement. In all cases where the Commissioner of Public Works certifies expenses to the City Council pursuant to the foregoing provision of this section, he will simultaneously transmit to the Comptroller a duplicate original of such certification, and the Comptroller, upon receipt thereof, forthwith docket the amount of such expense in the tax rolls against the real property affected with a notation "Assessment pending pursuant to § 252-4A(3)(c) of Chapter 252 of the Code of the City of Mount Vernon."

B. Permitted removal by private property owner(s).

(1) Removals on private property by a private property owner do not require
a permit if:

(a) 
The tree is less than 10 inches DBH; or

(b) 
The tree(s) have to be removed under an actual emergency, supported
by documentation, when such removal is necessary for the protection
of life or property, including adjoining properties.

The tree is infested as described in § 252-4A(3)(b).

(d) 
While a tree permit is not required, other permits may apply.
Please check with the Department of Public Works for more information.

(2) Removal of any tree(s) not specified under § 252-4B(1)(a) through (d) is prohibited without filing an application to the Department of Public Works and obtaining a written permit.

(3) Proper removal. When trees are removed, tree stumps are to be ground
down to six inches below ground level and covered flush with the surface.

(4) Damages caused by removal. If there are any damages to a sidewalk,
structure or surrounding area(s) caused by the removal of a tree,
the contractor hired for said removal will be liable for all cost
associated with the damages.

§ 252-5

Tree removal permitting procedure. 

A. An application for a tree removal permit is to be made by the owner.
The request for tree removal is to be made to the Department of Public
Works and will afford the City advance notice of at least 20 business
days to conduct an inspection. The permit fee for each tree to be
removed is to be $50. There will be no fee charged where the tree
has been determined by the City Tree Surgeon to be diseased, infested
or dangerous.

B. Applications for the tree removal permit shall include the following
information:

(1) Name and address of the applicant.

(2) Address of the property on which the trees are located.

(3) Tree information.

(a) 
The total number of trees to be removed.

(b) 
The DBH of each tree.

Of the total, the number of trees that qualify as significant tree(s) as defined by the definition of "significant tree" in § 252-2, and which of these are endangered or threatened species as previously defined by the definition of "endangered or threatened tree" in § 252-2, and/or a heritage tree as defined under the definition of "heritage tree" in § 252-2, or a memorial tree as defined under the definition of "memorial tree" in § 252-2.

(d) 
The total number other tree(s) specified under § 252-4B(1)(a) through (d).

(4) The purpose of the tree removal.

(5) A sketch drawn by the applicant and/or still photographs showing the dimensions of the property, the location of all trees, and the DBH and location of the trees to be removed, which are labeled as specified in § 252-4B(1)(b) and (c).

(6) Proof of approval of any additional permits required for the removal
of trees must be submitted with application.

(7) All tree removal application must show the retention of a licensed
contractor to perform said removal.

(8) Licensed contractor; license required. No person shall fell, cut,
trim, or remove any tree for hire within the City, the branches or
trunk of which is two inches or more thick at the point of severance,
without a license.

(9) Hours for tree removal. Except as permitted herein, the hours permitted
for the removal of tree(s) shall be between 7:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m.
during the week. A permit is required to perform weekend removal.

C. The Building Department and the Department of Public Works (DPW) with the advice of the Mount Vernon Tree Advisory Board have the authority to determine whether to grant, deny, or grant with condition a tree removal permit after inspection by the City Tree Surgeon and consideration of the factors in an emergency in § 252-9, and may require the replacement of trees in compliance with the terms of § 252-10.

D. The applicant shall be notified of permit decisions in writing and/or
email, if approved. If the permit is denied, the applicant will be
notified in writing and/or email by the Department of Public Works
of the reason for any denial.

§ 252-6

Removal of trees on private property under review by a City land use board. 

A. It is prohibited to remove or cause the removal of trees from any
lot without obtaining the approval of the reviewing City land use
board(s), in addition to a tree removal permit from the Department
of Public Works.

B. No applicant to the Architectural Review Board seeking certificate of appropriateness review within the next five years may remove or cause the removal of any significant tree as previously defined by the definition of "significant tree" in § 252-2, or other tree(s) not specified under § 252-4B(1)(a) through (d), from any lot without the approval of the Architectural Review Board, in conformance with the procedures and criteria of this chapter.

C. No applicant to the Planning Board seeking subdivision, special use permit and/or site plan review may within the next five years remove or cause the removal of any significant tree as previously defined by the definition of "significant tree" in § 252-2, or other tree(s) not specified under § 252-4B(1)(a) through (d), from any lot without the approval of the Planning Board, in conformance with the procedures and criteria of this chapter.

D. Method of protecting remaining trees. All trees on property to be
graded or near any excavation or construction of any building may
be guarded with a substantial fence, frame or box not less than five
feet high and eight feet square. All building material, dirt and debris
should be kept outside the barrier.

§ 252-7

Subdivision, site plan and special use permit review. 

A. Any application to the Planning Board for a subdivision, site plan, or special use permit review will include a landscape plan and schedule showing all existing significant trees, as previously defined in the definition of "significant tree" in § 252-2, and their DBH as well as trees to be removed and trees proposed to be planted, with their DBH. No separate tree removal permit application is needed for said application. The City Tree Surgeon will submit in writing or email, if there is an objection, within 60 days.

B. The Planning Board has the authority to determine whether to grant, deny, or grant with conditions removal of the tree(s) under this chapter after consideration of the factors in § 252-9, and may require replacement of trees in compliance with the terms of § 252-10.

C. In granting approval to an applicant for tree removal, the Planning
Board will comply with all applicable public notification requirements.

§ 252-8

Certificate of appropriateness review. 

A. Any application to the Architectural Review Board for a certificate of appropriateness will include a landscape plan and schedule showing all existing significant trees, as previously defined in the definition of "significant tree" in § 252-2, and their DBH as well as trees to be removed and trees proposed to be planted, with their DBH. No separate tree removal permit application is needed for said application. The City Tree Surgeon will submit in writing or email objection, if any, within 60 days.

B. The Architectural Review Board applications will be forwarded to the Planning Board, which has the authority to determine whether to grant, deny, or grant with conditions removal of the tree(s) under this chapter after consideration of the factors in § 252-9, and may require the replacement of trees in compliance with the terms of § 252-10.

§ 252-9

Determination by approving authority for removal of trees on private property. 

A. In making its determination to grant, deny, or grant with conditions the removal of significant tree(s), as previously defined in the definition of "significant tree" in § 252-2, the approving authority will consider the environmental impact and practicable alternatives of the proposed tree removal such that all requirements of the State Environmental Quality Review Act and regulations of the State Department of Environmental Conservation are satisfied.

B. Factors for consideration in making the determination to grant, deny, or grant with conditions the removal of the significant tree(s), as previously defined in the definition of "significant tree" in § 252-2, include:

(1) If the tree is dead or in poor health with an expected lifespan less
than two years, as determined by the City Tree Surgeon.

(2) If the tree is diseased, insect-infested or an invasive species,
or is otherwise hazardous and endangers the public, a neighboring
property, the property of the owner, or the health and safety of neighboring
trees.

(3) The number of trees to be removed. The practice of clear-cutting
is strongly prohibited by the City and will only be considered where
extenuating circumstances are determined to be present by the approving
authority. Additional information as needed or deemed necessary by
the approving authority may be required to establish extenuating circumstances.
Failure to follow this condition may result in a denial of application
for any proposed construction or development.

(4) Whether the tree(s) substantially interferes with the proposed construction
or development on the lot(s), especially if the tree is located:

(a) 
Within three feet of an existing or proposed sidewalk or driveway.

(b) 
Within five feet of an existing or proposed dry well, leaching
pit, drain, or other subsurface improvement.

Within five feet of an existing or proposed roadway.

(d) 
Within five feet of any other existing or proposed structure.

(5) If the tree removal(s) will have an effect upon:

(a) 
Drainage and erosion patterns in the vicinity.

(b) 
Growth of existing or proposed adjacent vegetation.

The health, safety or welfare of the residents of Mount Vernon.

(d) 
The character of the neighborhood and the property values of
the surrounding area.

(6) Debris removal does not include the removal of trees.

C. The approving authority will grant the permit subject to conditions
including, but not limited to, the following:

(1) Require the reasonable relocation of proposed foundation walls, driveways,
surface and subsurface improvements or drainage systems to preserve
specific trees.

(2) Require such safeguards as appropriate to minimize the environmental
impact of such removal operations.

D. The City Tree Surgeon shall review the tree permit application and
shall give recommendations to the approving authority on whether the
permit should be accepted, altered, or denied. The City Tree Surgeon
shall provide said recommendations within 20 business days of the
filing of the application for the permit. One extension of no more
than five business days may be granted by the reviewing authority
if requested by the City Tree Surgeon.

§ 252-10

Replacement of trees removed or proposed to be removed from private property in accordance with permit. 

A. For any lot(s) of any size for which the approving authority has granted a tree removal permit, replacement tree(s) may be required to be planted for every significant tree, as previously defined in the definition of "significant tree" in § 252-2, that is to be removed, in accordance with Subsection B below. In lieu of planting replacement tree(s) on that lot(s), and only when technically impractical or impossible, the alternative arrangement in Subsection D below may be pursued.

B. When the approval authority deems it necessary to ensure the protection
of trees scheduled for preservation or conservation, or to ensure
the installation of required replacement plantings, the approval authority
may require that the applicant furnish the City with a performance
bond, cash escrow and/or irrevocable letter of credit from an approved
financial institution or surety, to be approved by the City Attorney,
in an amount sufficient to cover 90% of the protection, planting and
restoration work to be completed in accordance with the approved plans
accompanying all applications. The remaining 10% of the cost of protection,
planting and restoration work shall be deposited in a cash escrow
account maintained by the City and released upon the running of the
warranty period and the satisfaction of all of the permit conditions.
Under all circumstances, the performance bond, cash escrow, or irrevocable
letter of credit obtained by the permit holder shall continue in full
force and effect until there has been full compliance with, and approval
of, all restoration work required by the approval authority. In the
event planting and restoration work has not been substantially completed
within one year and no permit extension has been applied for or granted,
the approval authority shall have the right to consider the permit
abandoned and declare the performance bond, cash escrow, or irrevocable
letter of credit in default, and may apply the escrow deposit and/or
the proceeds of the bond or letter of credit to perform all required
planting and restoration work. By accepting a permit, the applicant
and property owner thereby agree to this procedure and grant unconditional
access to the land for such restoration purposes.

C. In addition, to mitigate the removal or proposed removal of any significant tree, as previously defined in the definition of "significant tree" in § 252-2, the property owner may be required to plant new tree(s) with a minimum DBH of three inches. Each tree removed must be replaced by at least one tree of such species that is on the official list of permitted trees, as issued by the Commissioner of Public Works.

D. Such new tree planting is to be satisfied within six months of issuance
of a tree removal permit. The planting of the tree(s) will be in accordance
with the best practices of licensed tree professionals, the nursery
from which the tree is purchased, and/or the specifications of the
City Tree Surgeon.

E. When direct replacement of tree(s) on the lot from which tree(s) are being removed is not feasible, the property owner may pay to the City the cost of the replacement of the tree(s). This fee-in-lieu will be deposited into a separate City account, the Mount Vernon Tree Fund Escrow Account, created specifically for this purpose as described in § 252-18.

(1) The total amount required to be paid as a fee-in-lieu is to be determined
by the number of trees removed and not replaced multiplied by $500.

(2) A payment of fee-in-lieu shall be satisfied at the time of the issuance
of a tree removal permit.

§ 252-11

Suspension or revocation of permit for removal of trees on private property. 

A. The Buildings Department may suspend or revoke a permit in the form
of a stop-work order if it is found that the applicant has not complied
with any or all of the terms of such permit, has exceeded the authority
granted in the permit, or has failed to undertake the project in the
manner set forth in the approved application.

B. The applicant will receive written notice of said stop-work order,
which notice shall be delivered personally or by regular mail and
addressed to the applicant's address as shown on the permit or
address listed in the Assessor's office.

§ 252-12

Completion. 

A. Term for completion.

(1) No permit shall be valid for more than one year after approval of
an application, unless otherwise specified by the approving authority.

(2) In the case of tree plantings required in conjunction with subdivision,
site plan, special use permit or certificate of appropriateness review,
the applicant may be granted up to one additional year extension of
approval.

§ 252-13

Inspection. 

Any site for which an application has been submitted may be
subject to inspection upon notice to the property owner and/or applicant
at any reasonable time, by the Department of Public Works and the
City Tree Surgeon. The applicant, by making application for such permit,
shall be deemed to have given its consent to such inspection.

§ 252-14

Appeals. 

Any applicant aggrieved or affected by the determination of
the Commissioner of Public Works and City Tree Surgeon or other certified
representative has the right, within 10 business days from the date
of the determination, to appeal to the Department of Public Works
and state the reason for the appeal. A decision on the appeal will
be provided within 60 calendar days of appeal.

§ 252-15

Emergency removal. 

In circumstances where the condition of a public tree poses
an immediate threat to health or safety, as determined by the City
Tree Surgeon or the Department of Public Works, or designee, the tree
may be removed without a permit.

§ 252-16

Enforcement; penalties for offenses. 

A. Enforcement. It shall be the duty of the Commissioner of Public Works
and/or the City Tree Surgeon to see that the provisions of this chapter
are enforced and obeyed.

B. Penalties.

(1) Any person who violates any provision of this chapter may be held
responsible for a violation under the provisions of the Mount Vernon
City Code, punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 per tree,
for the first tree. For a second and subsequent offense, within a
one-year period, the violator may be guilty and held responsible for
a violation punishable by a fine of not more than $2,000 per tree.
All fines shall be deposited in the Mount Vernon Tree Fund Escrow
Account.

(2) In addition to any other penalty, the violator will be required to repair or replace, in kind, each and every tree harmed or removed in violation of this chapter, or pay a fee-in-lieu of replacement, in accordance with the replacement provisions of § 252-10.

(3) All trees which fail to survive for a period of two years following
planting shall be replaced by the violator at no expense to the City
or the owner of the land, if other than the violator. Said replacement
will be within six months following written demand for such replacement
from the approving authority or within an extended time period as
may be specified.

(4) No building permit or certificate of occupancy may be issued for
any new construction on the property on which any violation of this
chapter occurred unless and until the provisions of this chapter have
been satisfied. Further, any site plan approval, special use permit,
subdivision approval, building permit, or certificate of appropriateness
associated with the violation will be suspended or revoked until steps
taken by the offender meet the satisfaction of the approving authority.
Work may only resume upon the issuance of a certificate of completion
by the Commissioner of Public Works, for actions located on public
property, or the Building Inspector, for actions located on private
property.

(5) Any mitigation work must be approved and performed to the satisfaction
of the approving authority.

(a) 
Economic hardship. Notwithstanding § 252-10 above, an ordinary homeowner applicant may apply for relief from the requirements of this chapter or conditions imposed by the DPW Commissioner on the grounds that such requirements or conditions will result in an economic hardship. The ordinary homeowner applicant, in this instance, should, as part of the application to the Board, provide the support data as required by the Board.

§ 252-17

Mount Vernon Tree Advisory Board. 

A. A five-member advisory board known and designated as the "Mount Vernon
Tree Advisory Board" is to be established to assist the City of Mount
Vernon with planting, management and preservation of trees. The Board
will consist of the certified City Tree Surgeon, a designee from the
Department of Planning and three members of the public, serving three-year
terms, to be approved by the City Council. The Mount Vernon Tree Advisory
Board is to meet regularly to:

(1) Study the problems and determine the needs of the City of Mount Vernon
in connection with its tree planting and maintenance program.

(2) Regularly update and maintain the list of approved trees to be planted
upon City property.

(3) Assist the City Council with dissemination of information to the
general public regarding the revised Tree Ordinance as it affects
City property, and the responsibilities of private property owners
thereto.

(4) Advise the City land use boards regarding the impact of trees on
development and maintaining the neighborhood character of the City.

(5) Oversee the programs of pruning, maintenance, removal and replacement
of City trees.

B. All applications for site plan review will be copied to the Mount
Vernon Tree Advisory Board.

§ 252-18

Mount Vernon Tree Fund Escrow Account. 

The Mount Vernon Tree Fund Escrow Account shall be administered as a "discreet separate" fund with a separate section under the Budget of the City of Mount Vernon with separate designations in the Revenue, Appropriation and Expense sections of the Budget. The Mount Vernon Tree Fund Escrow Account shall be the repository for all fines and fees derived from activities under Chapter 252, Trees, as well as any grants and contracts received by the City of Mount Vernon that are specifically directed at the maintenance and planting of trees in the City of Mount Vernon. The Commissioner of the Department of Public Works shall be designated by the Mayor of the City of Mount Vernon to administer projects and spending that come under the purview of the Tree Fund. All purchasing, spending and accounting for funds of the Tree Fund shall follow the protocols of the Mount Vernon City Charter and Mount Vernon City Code pertaining to the financial responsibilities of the Mayor, the Comptroller, the Mount Vernon City Council, and Board of Estimate and Contract for all budgeting, revenue collection and spending approval. The Mount Vernon Tree Advisory Board shall receive monthly, quarterly and annual reports of the Mount Vernon Tree Fund and shall be allowed to participate in financial decisionmaking related to the Mount Vernon Tree Fund on an advisory basis only.

§ 252-19

Severability. 

Should any part or provision of this chapter be declared by
a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the same shall not
affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof
other than the part held to be invalid.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.