[Extracted from anchor #9449212]

A. Every owner of vacant property and every owner, tenant, occupant or leaseholder of occupied property shall cut, trim or remove brush, grass, weeds, debris, rubbish or other materials upon the property owned or occupied by such owner, tenant, occupant or leaseholder.A. Every owner of vacant property and every owner, tenant, occupant or leaseholder of occupied property shall cut, trim or remove brush, grass, weeds, debris, rubbish or other materials upon the property owned or occupied by such owner, tenant, occupant or leaseholder.B. Every owner of vacant retail property shall keep the inside premises broom clean and all windows shall be kept free of garbage bags, paper or other material used as window covering.B. Every owner of vacant retail property shall keep the inside premises broom clean and all windows shall be kept free of garbage bags, paper or other material used as window covering.C. No material shall be placed at the street for collection prior to 9:00 p.m. the day preceding the scheduled collection.C. No material shall be placed at the street for collection prior to 9:00 p.m. the day preceding the scheduled collection.D. The exterior of every structure or accessory structure, including signs, fences and awnings, shall be maintained in good repair, free of any condition that would present a safety or fire hazard or adversely affect adjoining properties in the neighborhood, to that end all surfaces thereof shall be kept painted or otherwise provided with a protective coating sufficient to prevent structural deterioration and to maintain a reasonably good appearance. The same shall be maintained free of broken glass, loose shingles, crumbling stone or brick, excessive peeling paint or other conditions reflective of deterioration or inadequate maintenance.D. The exterior of every structure or accessory structure, including signs, fences and awnings, shall be maintained in good repair, free of any condition that would present a safety or fire hazard or adversely affect adjoining properties in the neighborhood, to that end all surfaces thereof shall be kept painted or otherwise provided with a protective coating sufficient to prevent structural deterioration and to maintain a reasonably good appearance. The same shall be maintained free of broken glass, loose shingles, crumbling stone or brick, excessive peeling paint or other conditions reflective of deterioration or inadequate maintenance.E. In the event of such person's failure to comply with the requirements of Subsections A through D, the Village Administrator shall give notice to such person requiring compliance within seven days. If the owner of such property is a nonresident, such notice shall be addressed to his or her last known address.E. In the event of such person's failure to comply with the requirements of Subsections A through D, the Village Administrator shall give notice to such person requiring compliance within seven days. If the owner of such property is a nonresident, such notice shall be addressed to his or her last known address.F. After seven days from the date of mailing of such notice, compliance lacking, the Village Administrator is authorized and directed to cut, trim and remove brush, grass, weeds, debris, rubbish or other materials from any property upon which the same shall be, and the cost thereof shall be assessed against such real property and shall constitute a lien against such property and shall be collected by the Village Treasurer, in the manner provided by law for the collection of delinquent taxes. Such costs shall be in addition to any penalty assessed under § 252-7.F. After seven days from the date of mailing of such notice, compliance lacking, the Village Administrator is authorized and directed to cut, trim and remove brush, grass, weeds, debris, rubbish or other materials from any property upon which the same shall be, and the cost thereof shall be assessed against such real property and shall constitute a lien against such property and shall be collected by the Village Treasurer, in the manner provided by law for the collection of delinquent taxes. Such costs shall be in addition to any penalty assessed under § 252-7.