Village of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY


info

Part II General Legislation

Chapter 224 Property Maintenance





Get Updates

Chapter 224

Property Maintenance 

[HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Hastings-on-Hudson 7-16-1991
by L.L. No. 4-1991. Amendments noted where applicable.]

GENERAL REFERENCES
Unsafe buildings — See Ch. 106.

Streets and sidewalks — See Ch. 252.

§ 224-1

Purpose; definitions. 

§ 224-2

Exterior maintenance. 

§ 224-3

Buildings and structures. 

§ 224-4

Control of infestation. 

§ 224-5

Garbage and refuse. 

§ 224-6

Responsibilities of owners and occupants. 

§ 224-7

Enforcement. 

§ 224-8

Penalties for offenses. 

§ 224-9

Notice of violation; contents; hearing; appeal. 

§ 224-10

Emergencies. 

§ 224-11

Action upon noncompliance. 

§ 224-1

Purpose; definitions. 

A. Multifamily premises, commercial premises and single-family
residences shall be maintained in conformity with the provisions of this chapter
so as to establish reasonable safeguards for the safety, health and welfare
of the occupants and users thereof and of the general public.

B. For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms
shall have the meanings indicated:

COMMERCIAL PREMISES
A building, structure or land used for any purpose other than for
single-family or multifamily purposes, including premises used for retail
purposes, business purposes or industrial purposes.

MULTIFAMILY PREMISES
Any building which is used as a home or residence, other than a single-family
residence, together with any garage or other accessory buildings and the lot
upon which such building or buildings are constructed.

SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE
A building which is occupied exclusively as the home or residence
of a single family, together with any garage or other accessory building and
the lot upon which such building or buildings are constructed.

§ 224-2

Exterior maintenance. 

A. Surface and subsurface water shall be drained to prevent
damage to buildings and structures and to prevent development of stagnant
water. Gutters, culverts, catch basins, drain inlets, stormwater sewers or
other satisfactory drainage systems shall be provided and utilized. In no
case shall the water from any rain leader be allowed to flow over the sidewalk
or adjoining property.

B. Fences and retaining walls shall be maintained in a safe
condition.

C. In the case of multifamily premises and commercial premises,
steps, walks, driveways, parking spaces and similar paved areas shall be maintained
so as to afford safe passage under normal use and weather conditions. Within
12 hours after the cessation of snowfall, snow shall be plowed or shoveled
from all steps, walks, driveways and parking areas used or intended to be
used by tenants, occupants, customers, invitees or other members of the public.

D. No snow removed from driveways, walks or other areas
shall be deposited upon the public streets or highways so as to interfere
with the use of such streets or highways or with the use of any other premises.

E. In the case of multifamily premises and commercial premises,
all driveways and parking spaces provided shall be kept in good repair, and
such driveways and parking spaces shall be regularly cleaned to avoid accumulation
of dirt, paper and other debris.

F. Heavy undergrowth and accumulation of plant growth which
are unsightly, noxious or detrimental to health shall be eliminated or removed.
Hedges and shrubs shall be kept pruned or trimmed. Grass shall not be permitted
to exceed six inches.

G. The owner shall keep all and every part of the premises
which he owns and the steps, walks, driveways and parking areas located in
the front, rear or side of said premises, from the building line to the nearest
public street line, in a clean, sanitary and safe condition and free from
litter, debris, paper, dirt, garbage and junk and, except for public improvements,
in good repair.

H. In the case of multifamily premises and commercial premises, all areas within 20 feet of a public highway shall either be used as driveways and parking areas, which areas shall be in compliance with Subsection E of this section, or shall be planted with grass, shrubbery, flowers, trees or other suitable plantings so that they will not be unsightly in appearance.

I. Dead or incurably diseased trees shall be taken down,
and the diseased portion thereof removed and destroyed. Trees shall be kept
pruned, and dead wood shall be removed.

§ 224-3

Buildings and structures. 

The owner shall keep all and every part of the building and accessory
structures in attractive condition and good repair, including but not limited
to the following:

A. Exterior wood surfaces of buildings and structures that
are not inherently resistant to deterioration shall be periodically treated
with a protective coating of paint or other suitable preservative.

B. In the case of multifamily premises and commercial premises,
interior floors, walls, ceilings, furnishings and fixtures shall be maintained
in a clean, safe and sanitary condition.

§ 224-4

Control of infestation. 

A. In the case of multifamily premises and commercial premises,
grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insects, vermin
and rodents.

B. In the case of multifamily premises and commercial premises,
where the potential for rodent or vermin infestation exists, windows and other
openings in basements and cellars shall be screened with wire mesh or other
suitable material.

C. From May 1 to October 1, entrances to multifamily premises
shall be provided with self-closing-type devices or screens. Windows and other
openings in such premises used for ventilation shall be screened.

§ 224-5

Garbage and refuse. 

A. Sanitary methods and facilities shall be used for the
collection, storage and handling and disposal of garbage, refuse and other
debris.

B. Garbage, refuse and other debris shall not be permitted
to accumulate on any single-family, multifamily or commercial premises.

§ 224-6

Responsibilities of owners and occupants. 

A. Owners of premises and other persons, as defined in § 224-8B, shall be responsible for compliance with this chapter.

B. In addition, tenants and occupants of multifamily and
commercial premises shall be responsible for compliance with respect to the
following:

(1) Maintaining all and every part of the commercial premises
which they rent, occupy or control and the steps, walks, driveways and parking
areas located in the front, rear or side of said premises, from the building
line to the nearest public street curbline, in a clean, sanitary and safe
condition and free from litter, debris, paper, dirt, garbage and junk.

(2) Maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition all plumbing,
cooking and refrigeration fixtures and appliances as well as other building
equipment and storage facilities in that part of the premises which they occupy
or control.

(3) Keeping exits from that portion of the premises which
they occupy clear and free from obstructions.

(4) Disposing in a clean and sanitary manner of all garbage,
refuse and debris in the provided facilities.

(5) Exterminating insects, rodents or other pests within
that part of the premises which they occupy.

§ 224-7

Enforcement. 

A. The Building Inspector and other duly appointed law enforcement
officers of the Village of Hastings-on-Hudson shall be charged with the duty
of administering and enforcing this chapter.

B. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to issue
a notice of violation or to order, in writing, the correction of all conditions
found to exist in or on any premises which violate the provisions of this
chapter.

§ 224-8

Penalties for offenses. 

A. Any person, upon conviction of a violation of this chapter,
shall be fined a sum of money of not less than $100 nor more than $200 for
the first offense and not less than $500 nor more than $1,000 for the second
or any subsequent offense within a twelve-month period. In addition, such
person shall be subject to an injunction prohibiting and otherwise preventing
any further violations.

B. The term "person" shall include the owner, tenant, occupant,
mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor,
trustee, lessee, sublessee, agent or any other person, firm or corporation
directly or indirectly in control of any premises, building or part thereof.

§ 224-9

Notice of violation; contents; hearing; appeal. 

A. A notice of violation issued by the Building Inspector
relative to a premises shall be served either personally upon the person or
by posting the violation notice in a conspicuous place upon the premises affected.
If a notice of violation is served by posting it upon the premises, a copy
thereof shall be mailed to the person to whom it is directed.

B. A notice of violation shall state that unless, within
10 days from service of the notice, a written request is made for a hearing
before the Building Inspector, such notice shall, at the expiration of such
ten-day period, be deemed an order to cease and desist from and to abate the
described violation; such notice shall prescribe a reasonable time within
which such person shall be required to cease and desist from and abate such
violation. The notice may also contain an outline of remedial action which,
if taken, will effect compliance with this chapter.

C. If a hearing is requested, it shall be commenced not
later than 10 days after the request is made, provided that for good cause
the Building Inspector may postpone such hearing for a reasonable time. If,
after the hearing, the enforcement officer finds that no violation exists
or that unusual, extraordinary or undue hardship shall occur as a result of
the physical dimension and proportion of the property, he shall withdraw the
notice. If he finds that a violation does exist, he shall forthwith issue
an order requiring the abatement of the same within a prescribed reasonable
time. The proceedings at such hearing, which shall be informal in all respects,
shall be summarized in a report reduced to writing and entered as a matter
of public record in the office of the Building Inspector.

D. Any party aggrieved by the decision of the Building Inspector
may within 10 days of the decision of the Building Inspector appeal said decision
to the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of Hastings-on-Hudson by filing
the appropriate form.

E. The provisions of §§ 224-7B and 224-9A notwithstanding, it shall not be necessary for the Building Inspector to issue a notice of violation or to order, in writing, the correction of a condition in the instance of a second or any subsequent offense within a twelve-month period, and in the case of a second or subsequent offense, the person in violation may immediately be served with an appearance ticket or summons.

§ 224-10

Emergencies. 

Whenever the Building Inspector or enforcement official finds that an
emergency exists which requires immediate attention to protect the public
health or safety, he may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting
the existence of such emergency and requiring that such action be taken as
he deems necessary to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding any other provisions
of this chapter, such order shall take effect immediately. Any person to whom
such order is directed shall comply therewith immediately but, upon petition
to the Building Inspector or the local Justice Court, shall be afforded a
hearing as soon as possible. After such hearing, the Building Inspector or
court shall continue such order in effect or shall modify or withdraw it.

§ 224-11

Action upon noncompliance. 

A. Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner, person
or agent so notified to properly comply with this chapter within 20 days after
the service of notice as provided herein, the Building Inspector is hereby
authorized and empowered to pay for the correction of such violation, subject
to the approval of the Village Manager of the Village of Hastings-on-Hudson.

B. When the village has effected the correction of the violation
or has paid for its removal, the actual cost thereof, plus the accrued legal
rate of interest per annum from the date of the completion of the work, if
not paid by such owner prior thereto, shall be charged to such owner by the
village, and such charge shall become due and payable by said owner or person
at the time of the payment of such bill.

C. Where the full amount due the village is not paid by such owner within 20 days after the correction of such violation as provided in Subsections A and B above, then, and in that case, the Building Inspector shall cause to be filed in the office of the Village Clerk a sworn statement showing the cost and expense incurred for the work, the date the work was completed and the location of the property by section, lot and block on which said work was done and the name of the reputed owner thereof. The filing of such sworn statement shall constitute a lien and privilege on the property and shall remain in full force and effect for the amount due in principal and interest, plus cost of court, if any, for collection, until final payment has been made. Said costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed by law for the collection of taxes and, further, shall be subject to a delinquent penalty at the legal rate of interest in the event that the same is not paid in full on or before the date the tax bill upon which such charge appears becomes delinquent. Sworn statements filed in accordance with the provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have been complied with and the work has been properly and successfully done and shall be full notice to every person concerned that the amount of the statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated and described in the statement and that the same is due and collectible as provided by law.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.