Town of Cortlandt, NY

2025-04-22


Part I: Administrative Legislation

Chapter 15 Conservation Advisory Council






Chapter 15

Conservation Advisory Council 

[HISTORY: Adopted by the Town Board of the
Town of Cortlandt 3-25-1975 by L.L. No. 1-1975. Amendments noted where applicable.]

§ 15-1

Legislative intent. 

§ 15-2

Council established. 

§ 15-3

Membership. 

§ 15-4

Organization. 

§ 15-5

Powers and duties. 

§ 15-6

Reports. 

§ 15-7

Compensation and expenses. 

§ 15-8

Construal of provisions. 

§ 15-1

Legislative intent. 

The preservation and improvement of the quality
of the natural and man-made environment within the Town of Cortlandt,
in the face of population growth, urbanization and technological change,
with their accompanying demands on natural resources, are found to
be of increasing and vital importance to the health, welfare and economic
well-being of present and future inhabitants and require forthright
action by the governing body of the Town of Cortlandt. It is recognized
that the biologic integrity of the natural environment on which man
is dependent for survival and the natural and functional beauty of
our surroundings which condition the quality of life experience cannot
be protected without the full cooperation and participation of all
the people of the town working in partnership with local and state
officials and with various public and private institutions, agencies
and organizations. Establishment of a commission for conservation
of the environment is a necessary step in fostering unified action
on environmental problems.

§ 15-2

Council established. 

The Town Board of the Town of Cortlandt hereby
creates a commission which shall be known as the "Cortlandt Conservation
Advisory Council," hereinafter called the "Cortlandt CAC."

§ 15-3

Membership. 

[Amended 8-17-1993 by L.L. No. 2-1993; 4-22-2025 by L.L. No. 3-2025]

A. The Cortlandt CAC shall consist of up to 11 members
appointed by the Town Board for terms of two years plus up to another
two student members whose terms shall last one year. Persons residing
within the Town of Cortlandt who are interested in the improvement
and preservation of environmental quality shall be eligible for appointment
as members of the Cortlandt CAC. Vacancies on the Cortlandt CAC shall
be filled in the same manner as the original appointment, except that
a vacancy occurring other than by the expiration of term of office
shall be filled only for the remainder of the unexpired term.

B. The Town Supervisor, the Chairman of the Planning
Board and the Director of Planning and Community Improvement shall
be ex officio members of the Commission. Ex-officio members of the
Commission shall not vote.

§ 15-4

Organization. 

[Amended 8-17-1993 by L.L. No. 2-1993]
The Town Board shall designate a member of the Cortlandt CAC Commission to act as Chairman thereof. At the first meeting of the Cortlandt CAC, its members shall elect from among themselves a Recording Secretary. The Cortlandt CAC shall adopt rules and procedures for its meetings. It shall keep accurate records of its meetings and activities and shall file an annual report as provided in § 15-6 of this chapter.

§ 15-5

Powers and duties. 

The powers and duties of the Cortlandt CAC shall
be to:

A. Advise the Town Board on matters affecting the preservation,
development and use of the natural and man-made features and conditions
of the town insofar as beauty, quality, biologic integrity and other
environmental factors are concerned and, in the case of man's activities
and developments, with regard to any major threats posed to environmental
quality, so as to enhance the long-range value of the environment
to the people of the town.

B. Develop and, after receiving general approval by resolution
of the Town Board, conduct a program of public information in the
community which shall be designed to foster increased understanding
of the nature of environmental problems and issues and support for
their solutions.

C. Conduct studies, surveys and inventories of the natural
and man-made features within the Town of Cortlandt and such other
studies and surveys as may be necessary to carry out the general purposes
of this chapter.

D. Maintain an up-to-date inventory or index of all open
spaces in public or private ownership within the municipality, including
but not limited to natural landmarks; glacial and other geomorphic
or physiographic features; streams and their floodplains, swamps,
marshlands and other wetlands; unique biotic communities; and scenic
and other open areas of natural or ecological value and of the ownership,
present use and proposed use of such open areas, so as to provide
a base of information for recommendations by the Commission for the
preservation and/or use of such areas.

E. Seek to coordinate, assist and unify the efforts of
private groups, institutions and individuals with the Town of Cortlandt,
in accord with the purposes of this chapter.

F. Maintain liaison and communications with public and
private agencies and organizations of local, state and national scope
whose programs and activities have an impact on the quality of the
environment or who can be of assistance to the Commission.

G. Working in cooperation with the Planning Board, recommend,
from time to time, to the Town Board features, plans and programs
relating to environmental improvement for inclusion in the Master
Plan of the Town of Cortlandt and, similarly, recommend to the Town
Board appropriate and desirable changes in the existing local laws
and ordinances relating to environmental control or recommend new
local laws and ordinances.

H. Prepare, print and distribute books, maps, charts
and pamphlets in accord with the purposes of this chapter.

I. Obtain and maintain, in orderly fashion, maps, reports,
books and other publications to support the necessary researches of
the Commission into local environmental conditions.

J. When authorized by resolution of the Town Board of
the Town of Cortlandt, accept by gift, grant, devise, bequest or otherwise
property, both real and personal, in the name of the Town of Cortlandt,
as may be necessary to conserve and otherwise properly utilize open
spaces and other land and water resources within the boundaries of
the Town of Cortlandt. Such real property may be accepted in fee for
land and water rights or as any lesser interest, development right,
easement, including conservation easement, covenant or other contractual
right, including conveyance with limitations or reversions.

K. Carry out such other duties as may be assigned from
time to time by the Board.

§ 15-6

Reports. 

[Amended 8-17-1993 by L.L. No. 2-1993]
The Cortlandt CAC shall submit an annual report
to the Town Board, not later than December 31 of each year, concerning
the activities and work of the Commission and, from time to time,
shall submit such reports and recommendations as may be necessary
to fulfill the purposes of this chapter.

§ 15-7

Compensation and expenses. 

The members of the Cortlandt CAC, including
ex officio members, shall receive no compensation for their services
as members thereof but may be reimbursed for reasonable and necessary
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties within the appropriations
made available therefor.

§ 15-8

Construal of provisions. 

This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of
the powers of the Town of Cortlandt to preserve and improve the quality
of the natural and man-made environment on behalf of the present and
future inhabitants thereof. This chapter is not intended and shall
not be deemed to impair the powers of any other public corporation.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.