City of Peekskill, NY

2025-06-23


The Code

Part I: Administrative Legislation

Chapter 24 Conservation Advisory Council






Chapter 24

Conservation Advisory Council 

[HISTORY: Adopted by the Common Council of
the City of Peekskill 7-11-2011; amended in its entirety 11-28-2016 by L.L. No. 8-2016.[1] Subsequent amendments noted where applicable.]

GENERAL REFERENCES
Greenway Compact — See Ch. 62.
Parks — See Ch. 416.
Riverfront Green — See Ch. 449.
Park rules — See Ch. A603.

[1]
Editor’s Note: This resolution also repealed former
Ch. 24, Conservation and Parks Advisory Council, adopted 9-30-2002
by L.L. No. 5-2002 (Ch. 19 of the 1984 Code).

§ 24-1

Establishment. 

§ 24-2

Composition. 

§ 24-3

Terms of office; compensation. 

§ 24-4

Powers and duties. 

§ 24-1

Establishment. 

A conservation Advisory Council for the City of Peekskill is
hereby established pursuant to Article 12-F of the General Municipal
Law.

§ 24-2

Composition. 

The Conservation Advisory Council shall consist of nine members,
who shall be appointed by the Common Council. The Common Council may
appoint up to two members who are between the ages of 16 and 21. A
City employee will be assigned by the City Manager to attend meetings
to act as Recording Secretary.

§ 24-3

Terms of office; compensation. 

A. Each member shall serve for a term of two years. The Common Council
shall designate the Chair of the Conservation Advisory Council from
among the appointed members.

B. The Conservation Advisory Council shall elect its own Vice Chair
and Corresponding Secretary from among the members.

C. The Common Council may remove any member of the Conservation Advisory
Council for cause after public hearing, if requested. Vacancies shall
be filled by the Common Council for the unexpired term of the vacant
seat.

D. The Conservation Advisory Council shall serve without compensation.

§ 24-4

Powers and duties. 

The Conservation Advisory Council shall have the following powers
and duties, subject to City funding:

A. To conduct researches into the land area of the municipality for
which it was created.

B. To seek to coordinate the activities of unofficial bodies organized
for similar purposes and to cooperate with other official City bodies
active in the area of community planning for the City of Peekskill.

C. To advertise, prepare, print and distribute books, maps, charts,
plans and pamphlets.

D. To keep an inventory and map, as defined in § 239-y of
Article 12-F of the General Municipal Law, of all open areas within
the City of Peekskill with the plan of obtaining information pertinent
to proper utilization of such open lands, including lands owned by
the state, any other municipality within the state or by the City
of Peekskill itself.

E. To keep an inventory and map of all open marshlands, swamps and all
other wetlands in a like manner, and it may recommend to the Common
Council a program for ecologically suitable utilization of all such
areas.

F. To help build awareness and support for the management and protection
of Peekskill's natural resources and parks, including, but not
limited to, recommending, on referral from the Common Council or Planning
Commission, environmental ordinances for consideration by the Common
Council; reviewing environmental impact statements, on referral from
the Common Council or Planning Commission; reviewing site plans and
special permits for land use projects, on referral from the Common
Council or Planning Commission; advising the Common Council and Planning
Commission on policy matters related to the protection of natural
resources and the overall quality of the environment in Peekskill;
and advising the City Manager at his or her request on administrative
matters related to the protection of natural resources and the environment
in the City.

G. To be a source of public information in the City and to foster increased
understanding of conservation and environmental issues.

H. To organize volunteers for conservation projects as needed.

I. To identify funding opportunities for conservation projects.

J. To keep accurate records of its meetings and actions, and it shall
file an annual report with the Common Council on or before the 31st
day of December of each and every year. Once approved, the Common
Council shall forward a copy of this report to the State Commissioner
of Environmental Conservation.

K. To carry out any other duties, tasks, or responsibilities, consistent
with the objectives of Article 12-F of the General Municipal Law,
assigned to it by resolution of the Common Council.

L. When authorized by resolution of the Common Council, the Conservation
Advisory Council may accept a gift, grant, bequest, or otherwise,
money or other personal property in the name of the City of Peekskill,
for use in furtherance of the provisions of Article 12-F of the General
Municipal Law.

M. The Common Council may accept by gift, conditional or unconditional,
grant, devise or otherwise, real property in fee, or any lesser interest,
including conveyance with limitations or reversions, for the purposes
of Article 12-F of the General Municipal Law.

N. Upon the written recommendation of the Conservation Advisory Council,
the Common Council may acquire by purchase in fee or any lesser interest,
through negotiation, such real or personal property as may be needed
to fulfill the purpose of Article 12-F of the General Municipal Law.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.