Town of Rye, NY


info

The Code

Chapter 48 Property Maintenance, Dumping and Littering





Get Updates

Chapter 48

Property Maintenance, Dumping and Littering 

[HISTORY: Adopted by the Town Board of the Town of Rye as
indicated in article histories. Amendments noted where applicable.]

Article I

Property Maintenance 

§ 48-1

Grass, weeds, brush, rubbish as hazards. 

§ 48-2

Dumping on private and public lands. 

§ 48-3

Parking of highway machinery, trucks or storing of construction material. 

§ 48-4

Littering. 

§ 48-5

Penalties for offenses. 

§ 48-6

Definitions. 

§ 48-7

When effective. 

Article II

Bill Posting 

§ 48-8

Bill posting restricted; penalties for offenses. 

§ 48-9

When effective. 

Article I

Property Maintenance 

[Adopted 6-19-1962]

§ 48-1

Grass, weeds, brush, rubbish as hazards. 

A. Every owner, tenant, occupant or person legally in possession of
land in the Town of Rye shall have 

(1) The
grass, hedges, vines, shrubs and brush reasonably cut or trimmed,
and the trimmings or clippings removed therefrom;

(2) All
poisonous weeds or growth, ragweed and other noxious weeds eradicated;
and

(3) All
rubbish, litter, unsightly or objectionable materials, which are or
might tend to become health or fire hazards, removed from such land.

B. In the event that such owner or other aforementioned person fails
or refuses to comply herewith, the Town Board shall have the necessary
work performed and total expense or charge may be assessed upon the
real property concerned and it shall constitute a lien thereon until
paid, and may be collected in the same manner and at the same time
as other Town charges.

C. Ten days before undertaking the aforesaid work, the Town shall mail
a notice of its intention to perform said work to such owner or aforesaid
person.

§ 48-2

Dumping on private and public lands. 

No owner, tenant, occupant or person legally in possession of
real property in the Town of Rye shall permit or allow any grass,
hedge clippings, or similar trimmings, weeds, rubbish, litter, refuse,
garbage, cinders, bottles, broken glassware, waste building or discarded
construction materials, or other debris of any kind whatsoever, to
be dumped or deposited on any lands in his ownership, or possession,
or subject to his control, nor on any other private lands; nor may
any person dump or deposit any such material on public land without
permission from the Town Superintendent of Highways or the Town Board.

§ 48-3

Parking of highway machinery, trucks or storing of construction material. 

No owner, tenant, occupant or person legally in possession of
real property in the Town of Rye may park, store or keep upon any
of his or any real property in any residential district, any highway
or grading machinery or equipment, truck, commercial vehicle or construction
material, except as provided in the Zoning Ordinance of the Town of
Rye,[1] or during a reasonable period of time that the construction
project requires.

[1]
Editor's Note: See Ch. 66, Zoning.

§ 48-4

Littering. 

No person shall throw, discard, place or drop any article, litter
or material of any kind on any public highway or street, which includes
the roadway, sidewalk or pedestrian walkway, or abutting property,
in the Town of Rye, without permission from the Town Superintendent
of Highways or the Town Board. Nor may any person willfully cause
or negligently permit any article, litter or material to fall upon
or to be blown to any roadway, either from his person or from any
vehicle using the roadway or any portion of street, irrespective of
whether or not such person be the owner, operator or passenger of
such vehicle.

§ 48-5

Penalties for offenses. 

Any person violating the provisions of § 48-2, 48-3 or 48-4 of this article, upon conviction thereof, and in addition to the penalties provided by law, shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $25 for each offense.

§ 48-6

Definitions. 

As used in this article, the following terms shall have the
meanings indicated:

PERSON
Includes any person, persons, firm, corporation, partnership
or other joint venture or association.

TOWN
Includes the Town of Rye outside any incorporated village.

§ 48-7

When effective. 

This article shall take effect immediately upon its adoption,
publication and posting as provided by law.

Article II

Bill Posting 

[Adopted 8-18-1970]

§ 48-8

Bill posting restricted; penalties for offenses. 

The posting of any advertisement, election poster, campaign
material, notice or bill within the limits of any street or highway
or upon any public property within the unincorporated area of the
Town of Rye, without the consent of the Town Council, is hereby prohibited,
provided that this section shall not apply to the posting of any notice
which is required by law to be posted. A violation of this article
shall be punishable by not more than a $100 fine. The Superintendent
of Highways shall be empowered to remove any such bill, poster, election
poster, campaign material or advertisement covered by this article,
and the Town Council shall be authorized to charge the violator with
the cost of removing same in addition to the fine imposed for the
violation of this article.

§ 48-9

When effective. 

This article shall become effective 10 days after publication
and posting thereof.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.