Village of Sleepy Hollow, NY


info

Part II: General Legislation

Chapter 310 Property Maintenance





Get Updates

Chapter 310

Property Maintenance 

[HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village
of Sleepy Hollow as indicated in article histories. Amendments noted
where applicable.]

GENERAL REFERENCES
Building construction — See Ch. 145.

Dumpsters — See Ch. 175.

Landscapers — See Ch. 225.

Housing standards — See Ch. 245.

Nuisances — See Ch. 280.

Solid waste — See Ch. 347.

Trees — See Ch. 385.

Article I

Maintenance of Premises 

§ 310-1

Compliance required. 

§ 310-2

Definitions. 

§ 310-3

Exterior maintenance. 

§ 310-4

Buildings and structures. 

§ 310-5

Control of infestation. 

§ 310-6

Garbage and refuse. 

§ 310-7

Responsibilities of owners and occupants. 

§ 310-8

Enforcement. 

§ 310-9

Penalties for offenses. 

§ 310-10

Notice of violation. 

§ 310-11

Emergencies. 

§ 310-12

Action upon noncompliance. 

Article II

Weeds and Grass 

§ 310-13

Duties of lot owner or occupant. 

§ 310-14

Penalties for offenses. 

§ 310-15

Failure to comply. 

Article I

Maintenance of Premises 

[Adopted 12-3-1979 by L.L. No. 9-1979 (Ch. 41A of the 1965
Code)]

§ 310-1

Compliance required. 

Multifamily premises, commercial premises and single-family
residences shall be maintained in conformity with the provisions of
this article so as to establish reasonable safeguards for the safety,
health and welfare of the occupants and users thereof and of the general
public.

§ 310-2

Definitions. 

For the purposes of this article, the following terms shall
have the meanings indicated:

COMMERCIAL PREMISES
A building, structure or land used for any purpose other
than for single-family or multifamily purposes, including premises
used for retail purposes, business purposes or industrial purposes.

MULTIFAMILY PREMISES
Any building which is used as a home or residence, other
than a single-family residence, together with any garage or other
accessory buildings and the lot upon which such building or buildings
are constructed.

SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE
A building which is occupied exclusively as the home or residence
of a single family, together with any garage or other accessory building
and the lot upon which such building or buildings are constructed.

§ 310-3

Exterior maintenance. 

A. Surface and subsurface water shall be drained to prevent damage to
buildings and structures and to prevent development of stagnant water.
Gutters, culverts, catch basins, drain inlets, stormwater sewers and
sanitary sewers or other satisfactory drainage systems shall be provided
and utilized. In no case shall the water from any rain leader be allowed
to flow over the sidewalk or adjoining property.

B. Fences and retaining walls shall be maintained in a safe condition.

C. In the case of multifamily premises and commercial premises, steps,
walks, driveways, parking spaces and similar paved areas shall be
maintained so as to afford safe passage under normal use and weather
conditions. Within 24 hours after the cessation of snowfall, snow
shall be plowed or shoveled from all steps, walks, driveways and parking
areas used or intended to be used by tenants, occupants, customers,
invitees or other members of the public.

D. No snow removed from driveways, walks or other areas shall be deposited
upon the public streets or highways so as to interfere with the use
of such streets or highways or with the use of any other premises.

E. In the case of multifamily premises and commercial premises, all
driveways and parking spaces provided shall be covered with broken
stone, gravel, concrete or asphalt paving, which shall be kept in
good repair, and such driveways and parking spaces shall be regularly
cleaned to avoid accumulation of dirt, paper and other debris. On
commercial premises, all parking areas shall be paved with concrete
or asphalt, and all parking spaces shall be clearly marked with painted
white or yellow lines.

F. Heavy undergrowth and accumulation of plant growth which is unsightly,
noxious or detrimental to health shall be eliminated or removed. Hedges
and shrubs shall be kept pruned or trimmed. Grass shall not be permitted
to exceed six inches.

G. The owner shall keep all and every part of the premises which he
owns and the steps, walks, driveways and parking areas located in
the front, rear or side of said premises, from the building line to
the nearest public street line, in a clean, sanitary and safe condition
and free from litter, debris, paper, dirt, garbage and junk and, except
for public improvements, in good repair.

H. In the case of multifamily premises and commercial premises, all areas within 20 feet of a public highway shall either be used as driveways and parking areas, which areas shall be in compliance with Subsection E of this section, or shall be planted with grass, shrubbery, flowers, trees or other suitable plantings so that they will not be unsightly in appearance.

I. Dead or incurably diseased trees shall be taken down and the diseased
portion thereof removed and destroyed. Trees shall be kept pruned,
and dead wood one inch in diameter shall be removed.

J. Notwithstanding anything contained in Subsection G of this section, any property owner who shall fail to maintain the walkways, sidewalks, driveways and parking areas located in the front, rear or side of such premises, from the building line to the nearest public street line, in a clean, sanitary and safe condition and free from litter, debris, paper, dirt, garbage, junk and in good repair shall be liable to any party for injuries sustained as a result thereof.[Added 1-9-2001 by L.L. No. 1-2001]

§ 310-4

Buildings and structures. 

The owner shall keep all and every part of the building and
accessory structures in attractive condition and good repair, including
but not limited to the following:

A. Exterior wood surfaces of buildings and structures that are not inherently
resistant to deterioration shall be periodically treated with a protective
coating of paint or other suitable preservative.

B. In the case of multifamily premises and commercial premises, interior
floors, walls, ceilings, furnishings and fixtures shall be maintained
in a clean, safe and sanitary condition.

§ 310-5

Control of infestation. 

A. In the case of multifamily premises and commercial premises, grounds,
buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insects, vermin
and rodents.

B. In the case of multifamily premises and commercial premises, where
the potential for rodent or vermin infestation exists, windows and
other openings in basements and cellars shall be screened with wire
mesh or other suitable materials.

C. From May 1 to October 1, entrances to multifamily premises shall
be provided with self-closing-type devices or screens. Windows and
other openings in such premises used for ventilation shall be screened.

§ 310-6

Garbage and refuse. 
[1]

A. Sanitary methods and facilities shall be used for the collection,
storage and handling and disposal of garbage, refuse and other debris.

B. Garbage, refuse and other debris shall not be permitted to accumulate
in public halls and stairways of multifamily and commercial premises.

[1]
Editor's Note: See also Ch. 347, Solid Waste.

§ 310-7

Responsibilities of owners and occupants. 

A. Owners of premises and other persons, as defined in § 310-9B, shall be responsible for compliance with this article.

B. In addition, tenants and occupants of multifamily and commercial
premises shall be responsible for compliance with respect to the following:

(1) Maintaining all and every part of the commercial premises which they
rent, occupy or control and the steps, walks, driveways and parking
areas located in the front, rear or side of said premises, from the
building line to the nearest public street curbline, in a clean, sanitary
and safe condition and free from litter, debris, paper, dirt, garbage
and junk.

(2) Maintaining in a clean and sanitary condition all plumbing, cooking
and refrigeration fixtures and appliances as well as other building
equipment and storage facilities in that part of the premises which
they occupy or control.

(3) Keeping exits from that portion of the premises which they occupy
clear and free from obstructions.

(4) Disposing in a clean and sanitary manner of all garbage, refuse and
debris in the provided facilities.

(5) Exterminating insects, rodents or other pests within that part of
the premises which they occupy.

§ 310-8

Enforcement. 

A. The Building Inspector and other duly appointed law enforcement officers
of the Village of Sleepy Hollow shall be charged with the duty of
administering and enforcing this article.

B. It shall be the duty of the Building Inspector to issue a notice
of violation or to order in writing the correction of all conditions
found to exist in or on any premises which violate the provisions
of this article.

C. The General Foreman and duly appointed law enforcement officers shall have the power to issue an appearance ticket for violations of §§ 310-3G, 310-6 and 310-7 of this article, with the penalties described in § 310-9.[Added 8-20-1991 by L.L. No. 5-1991]

§ 310-9

Penalties for offenses. 

A. Any person, upon conviction of a violation of this article, shall
be fined a sum of money of not less than $250 nor more than $1,500
per day for the first offense and not less than $500 nor more than
$2,500 per day for the second or any subsequent offense within a twelve-month
period. In addition, such person shall be subject to an injunction
prohibiting and otherwise preventing any further violations.[Amended 1-22-2013 by L.L. No. 1-2013]

B. The term "person" shall include the owner, tenant, occupant, mortgagee
or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor, trustee,
lessee, sublessee, agent or any other person, firm or corporation
directly or indirectly in control of any premises, building or part
thereof.

§ 310-10

Notice of violation. 

A. A notice of violation issued by the Building Inspector relative to
a premises shall be served either personally upon the person or by
posting the violation notice in a conspicuous place upon the premises
affected. If a notice of violation is served by posting it upon the
premises, a copy thereof shall be mailed to the person to whom it
is directed.

B. A notice of violation shall state that unless, within five days from
service of notice, a written request is made for a hearing before
the Building Inspector, such notice shall, at the expiration of such
five-day period, be deemed an order to cease and desist from and to
abate the described violation. Such notice shall prescribe a reasonable
time within which such person shall be required to cease and desist
from and abate such violation. The notice may also contain an outline
of remedial action which, if taken, will effect compliance with this
article.[Amended 5-16-1989 by L.L. No. 4-1989]

C. If a hearing is requested, it shall be commenced not later than 10
days after the request is made, provided that for good cause the Building
Inspector may postpone such hearing for a reasonable time. If, after
the hearing, the enforcement officer finds that no violation exists,
or that such unusual, extraordinary or undue hardship shall occur
as a result of the physical dimension and proportion of the property,
he shall withdraw the notice. If he finds that a violation does exist,
he shall forthwith issue an order requiring the abatement of same
within a prescribed reasonable time. The proceedings at such hearing,
which shall be informal in all respects, shall be summarized in a
report reduced to writing and entered as a matter of public record
in the office of the Building Inspector.

D. Any party aggrieved by the decision of the Building Inspector may,
within five days of the decision of the Building Inspector, appeal
said decision to the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Village of Sleepy
Hollow by filing the appropriate form.

E. The provisions of § 310-8B and Subsection A of this section notwithstanding, it shall not be necessary for the Building Inspector to issue a notice of violation or to order in writing the correction of a condition in the instance of a second or any subsequent offense within a twelve-month period, and in the case of a second or subsequent offense, the person in violation may immediately be served with an appearance ticket or summons.

§ 310-11

Emergencies. 

Whenever the Building Inspector or enforcement official finds
that an emergency exists which requires immediate attention to protect
the public health or safety, he may, without notice or hearing, issue
an order reciting the existence of such emergency and requiring that
such action be taken as he deems necessary to meet the emergency.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this article, such order shall
take effect immediately. Any person to whom such order is directed
shall comply therewith immediately, but upon petition to the Building
Inspector or the local justice court shall be afforded a hearing as
soon as possible. After such hearing, the Building Inspector or court
shall continue such order in effect or shall modify or withdraw it.

§ 310-12

Action upon noncompliance. 

A. Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner, person or agent
so notified to properly comply with this article within 20 days after
the service of notice as provided herein, the Building Inspector is
hereby authorized and empowered to pay for the correction of such
violation, subject to the approval of the Board of Trustees of the
Village of Sleepy Hollow.

B. When the Village has effected the correction of the violation or
has paid for its removal, the actual cost thereof, plus the accrued
legal rate of interest per annum from the date of the completion of
the work, if not paid by such owner prior thereto, shall be charged
to such owner by the Village, and such charge shall become due and
payable by said owner or person at the time of the payment of such
bill.

C. Where the full amount due the Village is not paid by such owner within 20 days after the correction of such violation as provided in Subsections A and B above, then, and in that case, the Building Inspector shall cause to be filed in the office of the Village Clerk a sworn statement showing the cost and expense incurred for the work, the date the work was completed and the location of the property by section, lot and block on which said work was done and the name of the reputed owner thereof. The filing of such sworn statement shall constitute a lien and privilege on the property and shall remain in full force and effect for the amount due in principal and interest, plus costs of court, if any, for collection, until final payment has been made. Said costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed by law for the collection of taxes and, further, shall be subject to a delinquent penalty at the legal rate of interest in the event that the same is not paid in full on or before the date the tax bill upon which such charge appears becomes delinquent. Sworn statements filed in accordance with the provisions hereof shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have been complied with and the work has been properly and successfully done and shall be full notice to every person concerned that the amount of the statement, plus interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated and described in the statement and that the same is due and collectible as provided by law.

Article II

Weeds and Grass 

[Adopted 8-18-1937 (Ch. 60 of the 1965 Code)]

§ 310-13

Duties of lot owner or occupant. 

Each owner or owners, occupant or occupants of any lot of ground
or other premises within the Village of Sleepy Hollow shall, at all
times, keep the same free from brush, rubbish, weeds, rag weeds, tall
grass and other materials.

§ 310-14

Penalties for offenses. 

[Amended 7-6-1981 by L.L. No. 3-1981; 1-22-2013 by L.L. No. 1-2013]

Any person, upon conviction of a violation of this article,
shall be fined a sum of money of not less than $250 nor more than
$1,500 per day for the first offense and not less than $500 nor more
than $2,500 per day for the second or any subsequent offense within
a twelve-month period. In addition, such person shall be subject to
an injunction prohibiting and otherwise preventing any further violations.

§ 310-15

Failure to comply. 

In addition to the penalty specified above, should any owner
or occupant fail or neglect to comply with the provisions of this
article within 24 hours after written notice to that effect by the
Board of Trustees, the Village shall have the right to remove the
brush, rubbish, weeds, rag weeds, tall grass and/or other materials
and assess the cost thereof to the property so benefited.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.