

=== Article I ===

Village of Buchanan."

It is the intent of the Village of Buchanan to permit the Board of Trustees to take remedial action regarding unsightly and dangerous conditions of lands and the structures thereon. The Board of Trustees of the Village of Buchanan finds that the deterioration and unkept conditions of certain lands and structures within the Village of Buchanan become unsightly and a detriment to the adjoining buildings, properties and neighborhoods and constitute a nuisance. Such nuisances interfere with the promotion of good order, peace, health, safety and welfare of residents of the Village and invite vandalism and necessitate additional police protection for the security of said property, property owners and other residents of the Village of Buchanan. Further, it is found and declared that by reason of lack of maintenance and progressive deterioration, certain properties and structures have the further effect of creating blighting conditions, which if allowed to go unabated will lead to reduced property values and harm to the community as a whole, and this chapter and regulations will curtail such adverse impacts and will prevent the development of blighted areas, thereby enhancing the desirability and amenity value of properties in the community. Additionally, the Board of Trustees of the Village of Buchanan finds that the improper grading of property, change of terrain and drainage and careless maintenance, except under certain conditions, is detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of its residents, causes unsightly and dangerous conditions, is destructive of property and creates a nuisance.

For the purpose of this chapter, the terms used herein are defined as follows:

Temporary, transportable storage units designed and used primarily for temporary storage of building materials, household goods, personal items and other materials for use on a limited basis on residential property.

Accessory structures, such as sheds and liquid or gas containers, complying with all building codes and land use requirements, are not considered portable on-demand storage units.

Any portable on-demand storage unit greater than 10 cubic yards is subject to these regulations. Portable on-demand storage units greater than eight feet in height, eight feet in width or 16 feet in length (37.92 cubic yards) are strictly prohibited.



=== Article II ===

Article II Regulations and Restrictions

Surface and subsurface water shall be drained to prevent damage to buildings and structures and to prevent development of stagnant water. Gutters, culverts, catch basins, drain inlets, stormwater sewers or other satisfactory drainage systems shall be provided and properly grated and/or covered and utilized. In no case shall the water from any rain leader be caused or allowed to flow over the sidewalk or adjoining property.

Fences and retaining walls shall be maintained in a safe condition.

In the case of multifamily premises and commercial premises, steps, walks, driveways, parking spaces and similar paved areas shall be maintained so as to afford safe passage under normal use and weather conditions. Within 12 hours after the cessation of snowfall, snow shall be plowed or shoveled from all steps, walks, driveways and parking areas used or intended to be used by tenants, occupants, customers, invitees or other members of the public.

In the case of multifamily premises and commercial premises, all driveways and parking spaces provided shall be kept in good repair, and such driveways and parking spaces shall be regularly cleaned to avoid accumulation of dirt, paper and other debris.

Dead or incurably diseased trees shall be taken down, and the diseased portion thereof removed and destroyed. Trees shall be kept pruned, and dead wood shall be removed.

All structures and exterior property shall be kept free from insects, vermin and rodent infestations. Where vermin or rodents are found, they shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be injurious to human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to eliminate vermin and rodent harborage and prevent reinfestation.

Permit required. Before placing a portable on-demand unit on his or her property, a property owner or tenant must submit an application and receive a permit from the Village Building Inspector. An insurance certificate providing liability insurance in the amount of $100,000, provided by the third party supplying the portable on-demand unit, must accompany the application. There is no fee for a thirty-day permit for the first portable on-demand storage unit per every six-month period. For every additional portable on-demand storage unit requested within a six-month period, a fee will be required in accordance with the fee schedule as adopted and amended from time to time by the Village Board of Trustees. Applications may be obtained from the Village Building Inspector.

Duration.

Permits will be granted for a period of 30 days. At the expiration of the thirty-day period, applicants may seek to extend their permit for an additional 30 days by seeking an extension for cause from the Village. The fee for each thirty-day extension will be in accordance with the fee schedule as adopted and amended from time to time by the Village Board of Trustees. No one shall be given any more than two permits in any six-month period. A maximum of 90 days is allowed in any one consecutive twelve-month period.

In the event of fire, hurricane, natural disaster, or other emergency causing substantial damage to the structure, the property owner may apply to the Village Building Inspector for permission to extend the time that a portable on-demand storage unit may be located as a temporary structure on the property. Application for such extended duration shall be made in writing and filed with the Village Building Inspector and shall give sufficient information to determine whether such extended duration should be granted. The Building Inspector shall determine whether or not to grant such extended duration and the length of such extension. In the event of an adverse decision by the Building Inspector, the applicant may appeal such decision to the Village Board of Trustees by filing a written appeal describing why he or she needs additional time in which to have the portable on-demand storage structure on his or her property. The decision by the Board of Trustees shall be final.

Location. Portable on-demand storage units are prohibited from being placed in streets or in the front yard of a property. Portable on-demand units must be kept in the driveway of the property at the furthest accessible point from the street. All portable on-demand unit locations must be placed on paved off-street surfaces. The applicant must obtain preapproval of the location by the Village Building Inspector in the following situations:

If the property does not have a driveway;

If the location of the unit in the driveway is in the front yard of the property; or

The property is a corner lot.

Number of units. Only one portable on-demand storage unit may be placed at any residential property at a given time.

Exceptions. The above regulations do not apply to open containers commonly known as "dumpsters" used for the removal of construction debris or other refuse. In addition, a permit for a portable on-demand storage unit is not required when:

The portable on-demand storage unit is on a property for seven days or less over a period of six consecutive months.

Use of the portable on-demand storage unit is by a governmental entity.

Prohibited. No portable on-demand storage unit shall be used to store solid waste, construction debris, demolition debris, recyclable materials, business inventory, commercial goods, goods for property other than at the residential property where the portable on-demand storage unit is located or any other illegal or hazardous material. Upon reasonable notice to the applicant, the Village of Buchanan Building Inspector may inspect the contents of any portable on-demand storage unit at any reasonable time to ensure that it is not being used to store said materials.

Penalties for offenses.

Any person violating this section may be subject to a civil or criminal penalty, enforceable and collectible by the Village, in an amount up to $500 or six months' imprisonment, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each week's continued violation is considered a separate violation. Nothing contained in the preceding section of this chapter shall prevent the Village Board from maintaining an action or proceeding in the name of the Village in a court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with or restrain by injunction the violation of any provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations promulgated hereunder.

Any portable on-demand storage unit which is not removed at the end of the time for which it may lawfully remain in place, or immediately upon the direction of the Building Inspector or a law enforcement officer for removal of such temporary unit for safety reasons, may be removed by the Village immediately, without notice, and the cost of such removal, together with the cost of administration of its removal, may be assessed against the property on which the temporary portable on-demand storage unit was located and may be filed as a lien against such property by the Village.

It shall be a violation of this chapter for a resident of the Village of Buchanan or an owner of lands located within the Village of Buchanan to create, cause, maintain or permit to continue the following conditions:

Buildings and structures on lands owned by an owner or occupied by a resident as herein defined, along with the signs appurtenant thereto, where the exterior exposed surfaces of said buildings and structures are not inherently resistant to deterioration and said exposed surfaces have not been maintained, repaired, coated, treated or sealed with a protective coating of paint or other suitable preservative to prevent said exterior exposed surfaces from becoming unsightly due to deterioration and weathering of said surfaces.

The accumulation of any filth, dirt, ashes, junk, garbage, wastewater, raw sewage, sewage, wastepaper, dust, rubbish, sticks, stones, wood (including log piles exposed to the weather and elements), leaves, paper or paper boxes, iron, tin, nails, bottles or glass of any kind, old cars and parts thereof, discarded appliances, such as refrigerators and the like, upon lands owned by said owner or occupied by said resident.

Lands upon which grass, leaves, hedges, bushes and/or trees have become untrimmed and overgrown and unsightly when said grass, leaves, hedges, bushes and/or trees are exposed to public view.

Any hazardous condition or terrain, grading or drainage, as regulated by Chapter 159, Soil Disturbances and Excavations, or construction, in or upon property used, owned or occupied by said owner or resident, wherein said hazardous condition shall constitute a menace to the property, lines, mains, streets, sidewalks, equipment, structures or buildings owned by the Village or by adjoining property owners.

Upon receipt of a complaint or upon personal observation that a resident of the Village of Buchanan or an owner of property located within the Village of Buchanan has allegedly violated any of the provisions of this chapter, the Building Inspector or other authorized official shall promptly make an investigation of said condition. Simultaneously, the Building Inspector or other authorized official shall notify the resident and owner of said lands located within the Village of Buchanan accused of violating the provisions of this chapter pursuant to provisions hereinbelow of this chapter, and a copy of said notice shall be forwarded to the Village Board of Trustees for review and action consistent with the provisions of this chapter hereinbelow. Said notice shall indicate the date of meeting during which the report of the Building Inspector or other authorized official will be reviewed and examined by the Board of Trustees and shall indicate that the owner or resident will be given the opportunity to answer the allegation of said complaint.

If the Board of Trustees, after reviewing the report of the Building Inspector or other authorized official and hearing the resident or owner accused of violating the provisions of the chapter, shall find that a violation exists, it shall cause a notice to be served to said resident informing him that the violation must be corrected within five days, on failure of which the Village will cause the condition to be corrected or removed and the cost thereof assessed against the property as provided herein below under the provisions for administration and enforcement.[1]

In the event that the Village of Buchanan determines that the Village shall cause the condition to be corrected or removed, as provided hereinbelow, the Building Inspector or other authorized official shall submit a written report thereof to the Board of Trustees within 10 days of said determination to cause the correction or removal. Said report shall describe the actions to be taken and shall include a compilation of all costs and expenses to be incurred by the Village. At the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board of Trustees, the Board shall confirm said costs and expenses as an assessment against the real property involved, as provided hereinbelow, by duly adopted resolution, and shall issue a directive to cause the correction or removal as so determined. A copy of said resolution shall be mailed to the address of the resident involved, as said address appears upon the latest assessment roll of the Village of Buchanan. A lien of special assessment shall thereupon arise as provided for hereinbelow and by the Village Law of the State of New York. Said assessment shall be collected in the manner provided for hereinbelow and by the Village Law of the State of New York.



=== Article III ===

Village of Buchanan.

Whenever an enforcement officer determines that there is or has been a violation of any provision of this chapter, he shall, upon approval of the Mayor or a member of the Board of Trustees, give notice of such violation to the person, persons or entities responsible therefor. Such notice shall be in writing and shall include a concise statement of the reasons for its issuance. Such notice shall be deemed to be properly and sufficiently served if a copy thereof is sent by registered or certified mail to the last known address of the person or entity upon which the same is served, as shown by the most recent assessment roll of the Village, or a copy thereof is personally delivered (as if a summons) to said person or persons or a copy thereof is left at the usual place of abode or office of said person or entity. Notice shall be given as aforesaid within or without the Village. The notice shall also state that unless the violation is abated, removed, cured, prevented or desisted from within five days of the date of service of such notice, exclusive of the date of service, an appearance ticket shall be issued for such violation. The enforcement officer may extend the period for compliance stated in the notice of violation for a period in excess of the aforesaid five days if, in his judgment, the abatement, removal, prevention, cessation or cure of the condition violated cannot reasonably be effected within the five-day period, and in such cases, the enforcement officer shall state such reasonably required extended period in the notice, which shall then be applicable instead of the aforesaid five days.

Whenever the Building Inspector or enforcement official finds that an emergency exists which requires immediate attention to protect the public health or safety, he or she may, without notice or hearing, and with the consent of the Mayor or a member of the Board of Trustees, issue an order reciting the existence of such emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he or she deems necessary to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, such order shall take effect immediately. Any person to whom such order is directed shall comply therewith immediately. Upon petition to the Building Inspector, any such person shall be afforded a hearing before the Board of Trustees as soon as is reasonably possible. After such hearing and decision by the Board of Trustees as to the existence or nonexistence of the emergency condition, the Board of Trustees may continue such order in effect or modify or withdraw it.

The Building Inspector and the Highway Foreman shall be responsible for directing the proper securing of waste (trash dumpsters, containers or enclosures) upon all properties other than public property and shall provide written notice of noncompliance to the owner, tenant or occupant as provided in § 137-8, which shall require the correction, removal or replacement within five days of any nuisance, hazard, debris or litter not properly secured within a dumpster, container or enclosure.

Failure to comply with the direction of any official of the Village of Buchanan when notice has been provided in accordance with this chapter shall constitute a separate and distinct offense hereunder.

Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed or interpreted as limiting the authority of the Village to take all steps reasonable or necessary to promote and protect the public health, safety and welfare by providing for safe passage of pedestrians and vehicles on streets, sidewalks and public ways. The Board of Trustees, in its discretion, may authorize any applicable department of the Village to remove obstructions or nuisances, including snow, ice and vegetative growth, which impair the customary use of streets, sidewalks and public ways. The Board of Trustees may determine to undertake or authorize action, in whole or in part, by reasonable classification based upon location, amount of public use and degree of danger or impairment presented. The undertaking of the Village to take these actions upon default of the property owner shall not relieve the owner of any responsibilities imposed by this chapter.

The failure or omission by the Village to undertake to provide services shall not create any liability attributable to the Village. With respect to any dangerous conditions for which the Village may be liable, it shall be entitled to receive notice of defects in accordance with the provisions of state law. Any duty on the part of the Village pursuant to this chapter is a general duty of the Village. No person is authorized to create or imply or to assume or infer a special duty by the Village.

Upon the failure of a person to comply with a notice or order to correct a condition complained of, the Village Board may, after a public hearing, abate the condition, including but not limited to authorizing the Highway Department or such other person, department, or independent contractor as it shall deem appropriate to remove, correct, replace and make safe any and all unsafe or hazardous conditions, or any other violation of this chapter, charging the total cost thereof to the owner of such real property, which cost shall be assessed and constitute a lien and charge on the real property on which it is levied until paid or otherwise satisfied or discharged, and the same shall be collected in the manner fixed by law for the collection of taxes. In emergency circumstances, the public hearing may take place after removal, correction or abatement action by the Village.

The removal of any nuisance, hazard or litter by the Village of Buchanan or its agents shall not operate to excuse the owner, tenant or occupant from properly maintaining any premises as required by this chapter, and such owner, tenant or occupant shall, notwithstanding such action, be subject to any penalties provided for herein.

All direct and indirect costs of labor and equipment, supplies, disbursements and payments made or incurred by the Village in enforcement of this chapter, performing the work to abate the conditions which violate this chapter and in otherwise securing compliance, shall be payable to the Village by the owner of the property. Any sums unpaid shall be a lien on the real property and shall be assessed against such property, with 9% interest per annum, and shall be relevied and collected in the same manner as real property taxes.

Criminal penalty. Any person or entity which shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or any order promulgated hereunder shall, upon conviction, be punishable as provided for violations of the Penal Law. Nothing herein shall prevent the criminal prosecution of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter. Upon conviction thereof, the person or entity violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than $250, a term of imprisonment not to exceed 15 days, or both such fine and imprisonment, for each offense.

Civil penalties; remedies. Alternatively or in addition to those penalties prescribed for violations under state law, any person, firm or corporation which violates this chapter shall be liable to the Village for a civil penalty of not more than $200 for each day or part thereof during which such violation continues. Said civil penalties shall be recoverable in an administrative proceeding held by and before the Board of Trustees pursuant to the following procedure:

Whenever a violation has not been remedied within the time specified in the notice of violation, an enforcement officer may issue an order to show cause before the Board of Trustees why such penalties should not be imposed.

Service of order to show cause.

Such order to show cause shall be served personally or by mailing a copy of such order by certified mail to the property owner and occupant, to their last known addresses as shown by the records of the Village, and by posting a copy of such order on said premises.

A copy of said order may be filed in the County Clerk's office, which order shall be filed in the same manner as a notice of pendency as therein provided. An order so filed shall be effective for one year from the date of filing. It may be canceled upon an order of a judge or justice of a court of record or upon the written consent of the Attorney for the Village. The County Clerk shall mark the order to show cause and any record or docket thereof as canceled of record upon the presentation and filing of a certified copy of such judicial order of such consent.

Content of order. Said order to show cause shall state the nature of the violation; the provision or term violated; and the date, time and place for a hearing before the Board of Trustees. The hearing shall be set for a date not less than seven days after the date of the order to show cause is mailed.

Conduct of hearing.

The Board of Trustees shall conduct a hearing at the date and place specified in the order to show cause. The hearing may be adjourned from time to time and shall continue until interested persons subject to the order to show cause are heard. No formal rules of evidence shall apply nor shall a stenographic transcript be required.

The property owner, occupant and any others subject to the order to show cause may be represented by an attorney and shall have the right to present evidence and examine witnesses to show why penalties should not be assessed and/or why an order to remove an emergency condition should be modified or withdrawn.

After the hearing is closed, the Board of Trustees shall make findings and make a determination. Such determination shall indicate the basis and reason for the decision, shall state the dollar amount of any fine(s) imposed and shall be supported by substantial evidence.

Any fines imposed, plus, if any fine is imposed, the costs to the Village of the proceeding, including but not limited to attorneys' fees and administrative costs, shall be immediately due and payable. Administrative costs shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Trustees.

The determination of the Board of Trustees may be reviewed in a proceeding pursuant to Article 78 of the Civil Practice Law and Rules, provided that such proceeding is commenced within 30 days of such determination. Judicial review shall not stay any stop-work order or stay payment of any fine and costs imposed.

Assessment of fine and costs. All fines and all costs incurred by the Village in connection with this administrative proceeding, if unpaid, shall be a lien on the real property and shall be assessed against such property, with 9% interest per annum, and shall be levied and collected in the same manner as real property taxes.

In addition to the above-provided penalties and punishment, the Board of Trustees of the Village may also maintain an action or proceeding in the name of the Village in a court of competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with or to restrain, by injunction, the violation of this chapter or any order promulgated hereunder.