City of Mount Vernon, NY


info

The Code

Part II General Legislation

Chapter 149 Housing Standards

Article VII Property Maintenance





Get Updates

Article VII

Property Maintenance 

§ 149-35

Compliance required. 

§ 149-36

Open areas. 

§ 149-37

Buildings and structures. 

§ 149-38

Infestation and screening. 

§ 149-39

Garbage and refuse. 

§ 149-40

Domestic animals and pets. 

§ 149-35

Compliance required. 

Residential premises shall be maintained in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter so as to assure the desirable residential
character of the property.

§ 149-36

Open areas. 

A. Surface and subsurface water shall be appropriately drained to protect
buildings and structures and to prevent development of stagnant ponds.
Gutters, culverts, catch basins, drain inlets, stormwater sewers,
approved combined storm and sanitary sewers or other satisfactory
drainage systems shall be utilized where deemed necessary.

B. Fences and other minor constructions shall be maintained in safe
and substantial condition.

C. Steps, walks, driveways, parking spaces and similar paved areas shall
be maintained so as to afford safe passage under normal use and weather
conditions.

D. Yards and courts shall be kept clean and free of physical hazards.

E. Heavy undergrowths and accumulations of plant growth which are noxious
or detrimental to health shall be eliminated.

§ 149-37

Buildings and structures. 

A. Exterior wood surfaces of buildings and structures that are not inherently
resistant to deterioration shall be periodically treated with a protective
coating of paint or other suitable preservative.

B. Floors, walls, ceilings, furnishings and fixtures of residential
buildings shall be maintained in clean and sanitary condition.

C. Accessory structures shall be maintained so as to be free of conditions
detrimental to safety or health.

§ 149-38

Infestation and screening. 

A. Grounds, buildings and structures shall be maintained free of insect,
vermin and rodent harborage and infestation. Methods used for exterminating
insects, vermin and rodents shall conform to generally accepted practice.

B. Where the potential for rodent or vermin infestation exists, windows
and other openings in basements and cellars shall be appropriately
screened with wire mesh or other suitable materials.

C. From May 1 to October 1, entrances to residential buildings other
than multiple dwellings shall be provided with self-closing-type devices
or screens, and windows and other openings used for ventilation shall
be appropriately screened. Screens shall not be required in rooms
located sufficiently high in the upper stories of multiple dwellings
as to be free of mosquitoes, flies and other flying insects.

§ 149-39

Garbage and refuse. 

A. Adequate sanitary facilities and methods shall be used for the collection,
storage, handling and disposal of garbage and refuse.

B. In multiple dwellings, it shall be prohibited to store or accumulate
garbage or refuse in public halls and stairways.

§ 149-40

Domestic animals and pets. 

Domestic animals and pets shall be kept in an appropriate manner
and shall not be permitted to run at large.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.