Town of North Salem, NY


info

Part II General Legislation

Chapter 250 Zoning

Article XI Landscaping and Environmental Requirements; Performance Standards





Get Updates

Article XI

Landscaping and Environmental Requirements; Performance Standards 

§ 250-53

Planning Board authorized to adopt rules and regulations. 

§ 250-54

Landscape and lighting requirements and erosion and sediment controls. 

§ 250-55

Environmental quality review. 

§ 250-56

Freshwater wetlands protection. 

§ 250-57

Blasting. 

§ 250-58

Performance standards. 

§ 250-53

Planning Board authorized to adopt rules and regulations. 

Pursuant to the provisions of § 274-a of the Town Law and § 250-121 of this chapter, the Planning Board is authorized to adopt rules and regulations pertaining to the incorporation of landscape materials in any project requiring site development plan approval and for the environmental control of such projects.

§ 250-54

Landscape and lighting requirements and erosion and sediment controls. 

[Amended 7-23-2013 by L.L. No. 5-2013; 6-25-2024 by L.L. No. 1-2024]

A. Landscape standards for uses requiring site development plan approval.

(1) All exterior areas shall be suitably landscaped to be consistent
and compatible with the surrounding neighborhood area, and to effectively
screen and buffer said use and its accessory components.

(2) Landscaping shall be required to minimize environmental impacts associated
with enlarged parking and other paved surfaces associated with the
accessory needs of a facility and use, while improving the visual
aesthetic of the surrounding primarily rural residential and farm
community. Some examples of requirements include but are not limited
to:

(a) 
Intermingling of developed surfaces with vegetated and natural
environments.

(b) 
Implementation of infiltration and natural retention systems.

Implementation of effective filtration and biological systems
to protect water supply.

(d) 
Incorporation and addition of tree shading and alternative pavement
materials to minimize heat effects of pavement.

(3) The use of native and noninvasive plant species shall be the focus
of landscaping plans.

(4) Landscaping shall include a mixture of deciduous and evergreen shade
and screen trees, ornamental trees, shrubs, perennials, and ground
covers other than lawn. Areas of lawn shall be minimized to reduce
site maintenance and erosion concerns. Annual plantings are also encouraged
to supplement principal site landscaping. Fencing, stonewalls, and
other landscape features are to be utilized to assist with the integration
of uses with the predominance of detached single-family residential
uses within the community.

(5) The Planning Board may require the preparation of landscape plans
to be provided by a New York State licensed landscape architect.

B. Exterior lighting standards for all uses in all Zoning Districts
are as follows unless specifically noted to apply only to uses requiring
site development plan approval. Regulation of exterior lighting throughout
the Town in both residential and non-residential zoning districts
is intended to avoid excessively bright lighting that would cause
direct or indirect glare, up-cast lighting or sky-glow, to avoid excessive
contrast between lighted and unlighted sites creating hazardous driving
or walking conditions, to avoid nuisance light spillover and to avoid
glare affecting nearby residential properties or traffic. Regulation
of exterior lighting is also intended to conserve energy and resources.
Lighting is to be designed to be subtle and ancillary to the overall
site design of buildings and exterior facilities, providing the minimal
lighting necessary to carry out the functional aspects of site operations
while ensuring safety and minimization of impacts to abutting property,
human health, sensitive wildlife, and associated habitats, particularly
wetlands/watercourses, flora, and fauna resources. Energy efficient
LED lights are encouraged when replacing or installing new exterior
lights.

(1) Exterior lighting shall include but shall not be limited to all lights
mounted on the exterior of buildings and other similar structures,
as well as free-standing and ground lights. Lighting shall be designed
and maintained in a manner that is consistent and compatible with
area residential land uses and properties.

(2) Lighting shall be directed and arranged so as to reflect light away
from adjoining streets and properties. Lighting shall not be directed
towards or project onto neighboring properties. Lighting shall be
located so not to interfere or conflict with street traffic movements
and any traffic signals, or parking and pedestrian facilities.

(3) All new lighting shall be dark-sky compliant, utilizing fixed light
fixtures which are fully shielded and full cutoff, the design, scale
and massing of which shall be the minimal necessary. All new lights
shall include recessed and hidden lenses and fixtures. All exterior
lights shall be designed so that filaments, light sources, and lenses
are shielded and covered by the fixture housing made of an opaque
material in such that they will not be visible horizontally or from
neighboring properties and abutting streets.

(4) High pressure sodium lights, as well as lights producing varying
intensities, changing colors, flickering, flashing (except identification
lighting as required by the Federal Aviation Authority), moving lights
and search lights shall be prohibited, except for lighting used during
and by emergency service providers. Internally illuminated signs shall
be prohibited.

(5) Holiday light exemption. Temporary low-voltage (mini lights) holiday
decoration lighting shall be exempt from these standards provided
such is clearly incidental, customary, and commonly associated with
a federal, state, local or religious holiday observance, and provided
illumination of said holiday lighting is limited to a reasonable time
period associated with the duration of the related holiday.

(6) For uses requiring site development plan approval:

(a) 
The Planning Board may require the replacement or modification
of existing light fixtures deemed noncompatible to these standards.

(b) 
The Planning Board may require site lights to be turned off
or reduced in light intensity on all or part of the site at different
times of the day, such as after a facility is closed or during periods
of reduced site usage.

The intensity of site lighting shall also not result in unnecessary
light spillage over wetland or watercourse resources.

(d) 
The design or style of light fixtures and their support structures
shall be consistent and complementary to the site architecture for
uses requiring site development plan approval as otherwise required
at the discretion of the Planning Board.

(e) 
Such requirements above shall be established by the Planning
Board as part of the site development plan review process.

(7) Maximum height of light fixtures and mounting.

(a) 
The height of a freestanding light shall be measured from the
base ground elevation (including any base) to the highest point of
the light fixture and/or post.

(b) 
A freestanding light height shall be kept as low as practical.
The maximum height of a freestanding light shall be the following
based on the zoning district in which said light is installed:

Zoning District

Maximum Light Height

(*)

R-1, R-2, R-4, R-1/2, R-1/4 R-MF4, R-MF6, PD-CCRC NB, PO

15 feet

GB, RO

20 feet

(*)

Measured from the ground elevation to the highest point of the
light fixture and/or supporting pole.

The maximum height of a wall-mounted light shall be below the
roof eave immediately above said light fixture at place of installation
but not exceed a maximum of 15 feet above the area intended to be
lighted. For any use requiring site development plan approval, the
Planning Board may modify the maximum mounting height based on specific
circumstances where a higher placement would be more appropriate to
the setting and facility, and/or where overall lighting is otherwise
reduced. Recessed and hidden lighting under eaves, porch roofs and
other architectural structures shall be preferred to other wall mounting
lights.

(8) Maximum light intensity.

(a) 
No exterior lighting shall be used in a manner which produces
a concentration of light intensity or a direct glare on neighboring
properties or abutting streets. Exterior lighting shall be designed
to avoid unnecessary light spillage beyond the area specifically intended
to be illuminated.

(b) 
The maximum light intensity at the property line shall be the
following based on the Zoning District said lights are installed:

Zoning District

Maximum Light Intensity at Property Line Measured at Ground
Level

Maximum Light Source Color

(in degrees Kelvin)

R-1, R-2, R-4, R-1/2, R-1/4, NB, PO

0.50 footcandles (*) (**)

<3,000 Kelvin

GB, RO, PD-CCRC, R-MF4, R-MF6

0.25 footcandles (*)

<3,000 Kelvin

(*)

See definition in § 250-5 — One footcandle is equal to one lumen. Footcandle measurements are made with a photometric light meter and with a specified horizontal orientation.

(**)

For R-1, R-2, R-4, R-1/2, R-1/4 Residential Zoning Districts
— Residential light fixtures shall be of low wattage intensity.
Residential light fixtures placed at the head of a driveway near the
fronting access street shall not exceed an equivalent incandescent
light of 25 watts.

For uses requiring site development plan approval, parking lot,
walkway and other site lighting intensity shall not exceed a maintained
average illumination level of 3/4 (0.75) to five footcandles at the
ground.

(d) 
Overnight security lighting shall be installed with motion detector
sensors and time sensors to minimize impacts on neighboring properties
and abutting streets.

(9) Replacement conformance required.

(a) 
Existing lights consisting of flood lights, spotlights, and
other lights directed towards or projecting onto neighboring lots
which do not conform to these standards as of the effective date of
these standards shall be replaced or modified to conforming lights,
by no later than three months after the effective date of Local Law
No. 1 of 2024, as adopted on June 25, 2024.

(b) 
Other types of existing lights which do not conform to these
standards as of the effective date of these standards are encouraged
to be replaced, updated, or modified to conforming light fixtures,
and lights are encouraged to be turned off between 12:00 a.m. (midnight)
through 5:00 a.m. or controlled by a motion sensor, for uses and lots
not requiring site development plan approval.

For those uses and lots requiring site development plan approval,
the Planning Board may require such other types of nonconforming lights
to be replaced, updated, or modified upon an application to redevelop
or modify such uses or lots.

(d) 
Noncompliance shall be deemed a zoning violation, subject to the provisions and standards of Article XV, Administration and Enforcement, as may be amended from time to time.

C. Erosion and sediment controls. Erosion and sediment controls shall be provided consistent with the requirements and standards set forth in Chapter 193, the Stormwater Law of the Code of the Town of North Salem.

D. Maintenance and upkeep. The maintenance and upkeep of site lighting
and landscaping shall be a requirement of continued use and zoning
compliance.

§ 250-55

Environmental quality review. 

The provisions of the State Environmental Quality
Review Act (SEQRA) shall be complied with as appropriate. Fees for
SEQRA processing are in addition to other fees required by this chapter
as set forth in the Standard Schedule of Fees of the Town of North
Salem.[1]

[1]
Editor's Note: The Standard Schedule of Fees
is on file in the office of the Town Clerk.

§ 250-56

Freshwater wetlands protection. 

Any lot or site containing freshwater wetlands
shall comply with the requirements of the Freshwater Wetlands Protection
Law of the Town of North Salem.

§ 250-57

Blasting. 

No building or structure shall be erected, constructed,
enlarged, altered or moved or cleared or excavation made therefor
nor shall any site work be conducted except in compliance with the
Blasting Law of the Town of North Salem.

§ 250-58

Performance standards. 

A. Conformance required. No use shall hereafter be established,
altered, moved or expanded unless it complies with the performance
standards set forth in this section. Continued conformance with such
standards shall be a requirement for the continuance of any certificate
of occupancy.

B. Standards.

(1) Noise.

(a) 
Method of measurement. For the purpose of measuring
the intensity and frequencies of sound, sound-level meters and octave-band
filters shall be employed. Octave-band analyzers calibrated with pre-1960
octave bands (American Standards Association Z24.10-1953, Octave Band
Filter Set) shall be used. Sounds of short duration, which cannot
be measured accurately with the sound-level meter, shall be measured
with an impact noise filter in order to determine the peak value of
the impact.

(b) 
Maximum permitted sound pressure level. The
decibels resulting from any activity, whether open or enclosed, shall
not exceed at any point on or beyond any lot line the maximum decibel
level for the designated octave band as set forth in the following
table, except that where the lot lies within 200 feet of a residence
district, whether within or without the Town, the maximum permitted
decibel level at any point on or beyond the district boundary shall
be reduced by six decibels from the maximum permitted level set forth
in the table, and further, except that such reduction shall also apply
to any sound emitted between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
and all day Sunday.

Octave Band

(cycles per second)

Sound Pressure Level

(decibels)









600 - 1,199


1,200 - 2,399


2,400 - 4,799


4,800 - 20,000


Exemptions. The following uses and activities
shall be exempt from the noise level regulations:[Amended 6-23-2015 by L.L. No. 2-2015]

[1] 
Noises not directly under the control of the property user.

[2] 
Noises emanating from construction activities between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., or by sunset, whichever comes first, on
weekdays; and between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays.
There shall be no exemption on Sundays or national holidays.

[3] 
Noises emanating from routine maintenance activities between
the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., or by sunset, whichever comes
first, Monday through Friday, and 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays,
and 10:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on Sundays.

[4] 
The noises of safety signals, warning devices, emergency pressure
relief valves or other emergency warning signals.

[5] 
Transient noises of moving sources, such as automobiles, trucks,
airplanes and railroads.

(2) Vibration.

(a) 
Method of measurement. For the purpose of measuring
vibration, a measuring system approved by the Planning Board shall
be employed.

(b) 
Maximum permitted steady state and impact vibration
displacement. No activity shall cause or create a steady state or
impact vibration on any lot line with a vibration displacement by
frequency bands in excess of that indicated in the following table:

Frequency

(cycles per second)

Vibration Displacement

(inches)

Steady State

Impact

Under 10












40 and over



(3) Smoke, dust and other atmospheric pollutants.

(a) 
General control. The emission of smoke and other
particulate matter shall not be permitted regardless of quantity,
if it will be in any way detrimental to the public health, safety,
welfare or comfort or a source of damage to the property.

(b) 
Method of measurement of smoke. For the purpose
of grading the density of smoke, the Ringelmann Smoke Chart shall
be used to determine the total smoke units emitted. A reading shall
be taken every minute for an hour or, if less than an hour, until
the total smoke units emitted exceed the number allowed by these regulations.
Each reading shall be multiplied by the number of minutes during which
it was observed and the product added.

Maximum permitted emission of smoke. There shall
be no measurable emission of smoke, gas or other atmospheric pollutant.
The emision of one smoke unit per hour and smoke with discernible
density of Number 1 on the Ringelmann Smoke Chart shall be prohibited.

(d) 
Maximum permitted emission of dust. The emission
of dust related to combustion for indirect heating from any source
shall not exceed 0.30 pounds of dust per thousand pounds of flue gas
adjusted to 50% excess air for combustion. There shall be no measureable
emission of dust or other particulate matter not related to combustion
for indirect heating. All properties shall be suitably improved and
maintained with appropriate landscaping and paving or other type of
improvement, so that there will be no measurable windblown dust or
other similar types of air pollution created.

(4) Odorous matter. No land use shall be permitted which
emits any discernible odor outside the building in which the use is
conducted.

(5) Toxic or noxious matter. No use shall be permitted
which will cause any dissemination whatsoever of toxic or noxious
matter outside the building in which the use is conducted.

(6) Radiation and electromagnetic interference.

(a) 
Radiation. The handling, storage or disposal
of radioactive materials or waste byproducts shall be prohibited,
except when used at a health-related facility in the treatment of
patients.

(b) 
Electromagnetic interference. No operation shall
be permitted which produces any perceptible electromagnetic interference
with normal radio or television reception in any area within or without
the Town.

(7) Fire, explosive hazard and heat.

(a) 
Fire and explosive hazard. No storage or manufacture
of explosives or solid materials or solid products which burn actively
or which has a low ignition temperature or a high rate of burning
or create great heat, under ordinary temperature conditions, shall
be permitted, except as otherwise permitted by law or by permit under
license by the Town as provided for in Local Law No. 7-1985, Blasting
Law of North Salem.

(b) 
Heat. There shall be no emission of heat which
would cause a temperature increase in excess of 1° F. along any
adjoining lot line, whether such change be in the air, in the ground
or in any watercourse or water body.

(8) Liquid or solid wastes. The discharge of any or all
wastes shall be permitted only if in complete accordance with all
standards, laws and regulations of the Westchester County Department
of Health, New York State Department of Environmental Conservation
or any other regulatory agency having jurisdiction. Facilities for
the storage of solid waste shall be so located and designed as to
be screened from the street or from any adjoining property and so
as to discourage the breeding of rodents or insects.

(9) Vehicular traffic. No business or industrial use shall
be permitted where it is determined by the Planning Board that the
type and number of vehicle trips it is estimated to generate would
be expected to produce unusual traffic hazards or congestion or cause
or induce emissions which may be expected to interfere with the maintenance
of air quality standards established by the United States Environmental
Protection Agency, the New York State Department of Environmental
Conservation or other' regulatory agency having jurisdiction, due
to the design or capacity of the state or highway system, the relationship
of such proposed use to surrounding or nearby industrial, commercial
or residential uses or other factors affecting air pollution arising
from mobile-source activity.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.