Town of North Castle Noise Control Law."

This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the police power of the State of New York and of the Town of North Castle for the protection of the economic and social welfare, health and peace of the people of the Town of North Castle, and all its provisions shall be construed for the accomplishment of that purpose.

It is hereby declared to be the policy of the Town of North Castle to prevent excessive, unnecessary or unusually loud noise which may jeopardize the well-being, public health, comfort, convenience, safety and welfare of its citizens and the peace and quiet of its inhabitants. The provisions and prohibitions hereinafter contained and the enforcement provisions hereinafter contained shall not be utilized or construed in any manner so as to deny or limit any right or privilege granted and recognized by the First Amendment of the Constitution of the United States.

It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of others within the Town of North Castle, New York.

The following acts, among others, are declared to be loud, disturbing and unnecessary noises in violation of this chapter, but said enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive:

The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle except as a warning signal pursuant to the provisions of the Vehicle and Traffic Law of the State of New York.

The using, playing or operating of, or the permitting to be played, used or operated of, any receiving or playing radio, television, tape player, compact disc player, musical instrument, or other machine or device for the producing or reproducing of sound in such manner or volume as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of the neighboring inhabitants or occupants, or at any time with louder volume than is necessary for convenient, normal hearing by the person or persons who are in the room or enclosure or place in which such equipment or device is operated, and who are involuntary listeners thereto. The operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine or device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as to be distinctly audible to persons with normal hearing at a distance of 50 feet from the room or building or structure in which it is located shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.

The playing, using or operating of, or the permitting to be played, used or operated of, any radio, television, tape player, compact disc player, musical instrument, phonograph, loud speaker, sound amplifier or any other machine or device or equipment for the producing or reproducing of voices or sound which is directed to or cast or audible upon the public streets for the purpose of commercial or business advertising or attracting the attention of the public or persons passing by to any abutting or nearby building or structure or place of any commercial or public operation conducted therein or thereon.

Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing on the public streets, parks or places, or a place of business or other establishment open to the public, particularly between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, repose, health or peace of persons in any place of work or in any dwelling, hotel or other residence, or of any person in the vicinity of such acts.

Excessive animal noise which is unreasonably annoying, disturbing, offensive, or which unreasonably interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property of one or more persons within reasonable proximity to the property where the animal(s) is kept. The noise shall be continuously audible for 20 minutes or intermittently audible for 45 minutes to be deemed excessive animal noise.

The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal-combustion engine, air compressor or motor vehicle engine, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.

The operation of power lawn mowers, rakes or leaf blowers, or other motor-driven lawn or garden equipment, not including snow removal equipment, between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 7:30 a.m., Monday through Friday, and 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m., prevailing time, on Saturdays, Sundays and any federal holidays.

Construction work, including but not limited to building, repairing, grading, leveling and excavating, between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:30 a.m., Monday through Friday, and 5:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. on Saturdays, Sundays and federal holidays, which by causing frequent or long-continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person residing in the vicinity.

Permitting the sounding of any vehicle, home or business alarm device to continue unabated after response from the appropriate security/municipal authority.

Containers and construction materials. No person shall load, unload, handle, transport, open, close or destroy any containers or construction material or other materials in such a manner as to create unnecessary noise between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:30 a.m., Monday through Friday, and 5:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. on Saturdays, Sundays and federal holidays, which by causing frequent or long-continued noise shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person residing in the vicinity.

Squealing tires. No person shall operate a vehicle in such a manner as to cause unnecessary noise by spinning or squealing the tires of such vehicle.

The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Police Department of the Town of North Castle or any agent thereof appointed by the Town Board.

Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $1,000 per day per violation or be imprisoned for a period not exceeding 15 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. In addition, any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter may be subject to judicial prohibition of the use of the specific noise-producing compressor, recreational vehicle, motor vehicle, paving breaker, sound-reproduction instrument or other device complained of for a period not to exceed 60 days. Each day that such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such. Any person under the age of 16 years who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed to be a juvenile violator.

The operation of vehicles and equipment used by the Town of North Castle Highway Department in the performance of official duties shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter. Gasoline and fuel delivery trucks are also exempt from the requirements of this chapter.