Village of Ardsley, except when such performance or work is done in compliance with the regulations as set forth herein.

The provisions of this section shall not apply to matters of urgent necessity in the interest of public safety.

The following regulations shall be observed by all persons and their employees:

No person shall operate any power or manual lawn mower or other gardening equipment at any time, except between the hours of 8:00 a.m., prevailing time, and 8:00 p.m. on weekdays and Saturdays, and 10:00 a.m., prevailing time, to 8:00 p.m., prevailing time, on Sundays and holidays.

See Article II for additional rules for gas leaf blowers.

No person shall operate or permit the operation of any radio, television, video cassette recorder, tape player, compact disk player, stereo, musical instrument or other sound-producing device in an unreasonable manner or with such volume so as to cause inconvenience or annoyance to the neighborhood or to disturb the quiet comfort or repose of persons in any dwelling or residence.

No person shall cause or commit to be caused unnecessary noise, including the erection, excavation, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or structure other than between the hours of 8:00 a.m., prevailing time, and 8:00 p.m. on weekdays and Saturdays, and 10:00 a.m., prevailing time, to 8:00 p.m., prevailing time, on Sundays and holidays.

No person shall operate or cause to be operated any mechanism propelled by electricity or by gasoline, fuel, oil or other combustible substance, unless the same be properly equipped with a muffler so designed and in such condition as to prevent unnecessary noise and cause a public nuisance in its operation.

No person shall sing, talk, scream or vocalize in such a volume so as to cause inconvenience or annoyance to the neighborhood or to disturb the quiet comfort or repose of persons in any dwelling or neighborhood.

Any person, firm or corporation committing an offense against any provision of this chapter shall constitute a violation and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $50 for the first offense and for each and every additional offense a fine not to exceed $100.

The Village of Ardsley (the "Village"), in furtherance of its overarching goals of promoting the health, safety and welfare of the public and protecting the environment, and in support of preserving the quality of life and encouraging mutually respectful enjoyment of property, restricts the use of gas leaf blowers to defined periods of use and other restrictions.

All gas leaf blowers will be prohibited for use in the Village beginning January 1, 2028, unless continuation of their use is approved by the Ardsley Board of Trustees.

The use of gas leaf blowers is prohibited except between March 15 and May 15 and October 15 and December 15, and only from 8:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. on Monday through Friday, and 10:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. on Saturday, Sunday and holidays.

No more than two gas leaf blowers may be operated on a property at one time during the permissible hours of operation.

Each gas leaf blower operated on any property in the Village must meet current EPA exhaust emission standards for the device and must be operated in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions or specifications.

Gas leaf blowers are exempt when used to clear driveways, streets, walkways, and the exterior of premises within a period defined and the hours of operation determined by the Village Manager after rainstorms, ice storms, windstorms, or other emergencies as declared by the Village Manager.

Gas leaf blowers are exempt in cases of tree removal where they can be used to clean up debris after the tree(s) is removed. Only one gas leaf blower may be used per property.

Any owner, superintendent, lessee, occupant, tenant or other person exercising supervision or control of a property who commits an offense or engages a person or landscaping service that commits an offense against any provision of this chapter shall constitute a violation and shall be punished by a fine of $50 for the first offense and $250 for each subsequent offense in the same calendar year.