Village of Ardsley. This chapter seeks to correct these conditions.

The Village Manager shall be designated as Street Commissioner. The Street Commissioner shall have supervision over all trees planted or growing within the lines of all public streets and places of the village and the planting, removal, care, maintenance and protection thereof, pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. The Street Commissioner shall have the right to trim, spray, preserve and plant such trees as may be necessary to preserve symmetry, or to remove or cause to be removed any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition, or which, by reason of its nature, is injurious to sewers or other public improvements or is infected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest. In general, the Street Commissioner shall work in conjunction with the Conservation Advisory Commission and with the Landscape Consultant.

It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation or any officer, employee or agent thereof, without a written permit from the Street Commissioner, to plant, remove, destroy, cut, break, climb or injure any tree or shrub or portion thereof that is planted or growing within the lines of any public street or place within the village, or to injure, misuse or remove any device set for the protection of any such tree or shrub.

Any person, firm or corporation, or officer, employee or agent thereof, desiring to plant, remove, destroy, cut, prune, treat with a view to its preservation or protection from diseases or insects or trim any tree within the lines of any public street or place shall make an application in writing to the Street Commissioner. Such application must describe the work to be done, specify the location and state the number, variety and size of the trees to be planted, trimmed, removed or treated, the proposed method and the kind and condition of the nearest trees upon the adjoining property. If an application is made for a permit for the planting of more than 25 trees, the applicant shall submit a planting plan in duplicate which shall show the following:

The proposed street, together with its subdivision of pavement, curb, gutter, planting strip and sidewalk areas, to a definite indicated scale.

The proposed location of each proposed tree, together with the location of each existing tree within the street lines in sealed relation to the other features of the plan.

The variety of each tree proposed to be planted and of each tree already existing within the street lines, either indicated on the plan or referenced with a number to a key list.

The distance between trees in any one row, in feet.

The nature of the soil in the planting space, to a depth of three feet, and all existing and proposed surface or subsoil drainage systems.

When approved, one copy of the planting plan shall be returned to the applicant and the other copy shall be kept on file by the Street Commissioner.

All such applications shall be referred by the Street Commissioner to the Conservation Advisory Commission and the landscape consultant for their recommendations. If the desired action and the proposed method of accomplishing the same is approved, the Street Commissioner shall issue a written permit therefor. Any work done under such written permit must be performed in strict accordance with the terms thereof and the provisions of this chapter and under the supervision and direction of the Street Commissioner or his duly authorized representative.

The permit shall be good only for the season stated in the same in the year issued, and no charge shall be made therefor.

The following regulations are hereby established for the planting, trimming and maintenance of trees within the lines of any public street or place in the village:

Trees must not be less than one inch in diameter of trunk and one foot above the ground.

All trees from one to three inches in diameter and more than one foot above the ground must be protected and supported by tree guards. When guarded with one stake only, the stake must be toward the prevailing wind. Guy or tie wires or ropes around the tree must be covered suitably to prevent abrasion of the trunk.

No trees shall hereafter be planted at the intersection of two or more streets or within 20 feet of such intersection.

No trees shall hereafter be planted closer than 10 feet to a fire hydrant or electric light or wire pole.

In cutting down trees, the same must be removed with the root stump grubbed out when so required by the Street Commissioner.

All cuts two inches or more in diameter must be painted with a suitable waterproof tree wound paint as approved by the Street Commissioner.

Trees shall be planted at least 30 feet apart unless otherwise directed by the Street Commissioner, except that Norway maples, pin oaks, scarlet oaks, lindens and sweet gums shall be spaced not less than 40 feet apart, and sugar maples, red oaks, white oaks, sycamores and male gingkos shall be spaced not less than 50 feet apart.

No tree shall be planted where the soil is too poor to ensure the growth of such tree unless a suitable hole of not less than 27 cubic feet is excavated and the removed material replaced with suitable loam or topsoil.

No tree shall be planted nearer than one foot from the curbline or inside property line or inner or outer line of the sidewalk unless otherwise directed by the Street Commissioner.

No tree shall be planted in any area where there is less than 36 inches distance between the curb and sidewalk in the ground area maintained for the growth of the tree, unless express permission for the planting of such tree is given by the Street Commissioner.

No tree shall be planted on any street except of the variety selected or approved by the Street Commissioner after consultation with the landscape consultant.

No tree shall be planted on public property within six feet of any driveway.

Trees to be planted on streets where no trees stand should be planted on the property side of the sidewalk unless special permission is given by the Street Commissioner to plant on the curbside.

Trees should be sprayed when necessary to control defoliating or injurious insects or diseases. All such proposed spray programs shall be referred to the Conservation Advisory Commission for its recommendations. Any work must be performed under the supervision and direction of the Street Commissioner or his duly authorized representative.

It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to plant a poplar tree (Populus species), a willow tree (Salix species), a tree of heaven (Ailanthus species), a female gingko tree (Gingko biloba) or wild cherry tree (Prunus and Padus species) within any public street or place within the limits of the village or to plant any such tree on private grounds in a location which will permit the roots to penetrate over, on or under the surface of any public street or place.

Gas, salt, brine water, oil, herbicides or other toxic substances. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation owning or using or having control or charge of gas, salt, brine water, oil, herbicides or other substances toxic to tree life to allow the same to come into contact with any tree within the lines of any public street or place, or to leak, pour, flow or drip on or into the soil about the base of any such tree or on the sidewalk, road, pavement or gutter at a point where such substance, by flowing, dripping or seeping into the soil or in any other manner whatsoever, may injure any such tree.

Minimum openings in stone, cement, blacktop and other materials. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, except with the written permission of the Street Commissioner, to place or maintain upon the ground in any public street or place any stone, cement or other impervious material or substance in such a manner as may obstruct the free access of air and water to the roots of any tree. Unless otherwise provided for in such written permission, there must be maintained about the base of the trunk of each such tree at least nine square feet of ground for a tree three inches in diameter and for every two inches of increase of such diameter there must be an increase of at least one square foot of open ground.

Electric wires. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to cause a wire or other conductor, charged with electricity, to come into contact with any tree in or upon any public street or place in such a manner as may injure or abrade or destroy such tree. Whenever the Street Commissioner determines it to be necessary in order to prune or cut down any tree or part of a tree growing in or upon a public street or place, the owner of any electric wire or wires shall temporarily remove the same or cut off the electricity, within 24 hours after service upon such owner, or his or its agent, of a written notice signed by the Street Commissioner to remove such wires or cut off such electricty.

Girdling. It shall be unlawful for any person at any time to girdle any tree for any purpose whatsoever.

Wires, ropes, chains, signs and other devices. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to attach or keep attached to any tree in or upon any public street or place or to the guard or stake intended for the protection of such tree, any ropes, wires, chains, signs or other devices whatsoever, except for the purpose of protecting it or the public. When it is necessary for the protection of the public, the Street Commissioner may, on application from a person, firm or corporation, allow the placing of eye bolts in any such tree to be used as an anchor for a guy line or cable supporting a pole.

Protection of trees during construction. During the erection, repair, alteration or removal of any building or structure, it shall be unlawful for the person or persons in charge of such erection, repair, alteration or removal to leave any tree in or upon any public street or place in the vicinity of such building or structure without such good and sufficient guard or protectors as shall prevent injury to such tree arising out of or by reason of such erection, repair, alteration or removal. All moving of trees in or upon any public street or place made necessary for the moving of a building or structure of for any other purpose shall be done by the Street Commissioner or under his supervision, at the expense of the applicant. Should such moving or replanting cause the death of any such tree, the applicant shall replace the same at his or its expense.

Trees standing on any lot or land adjacent to any public street or place and having branches projecting into the public street or place shall be kept trimmed by the owner or owners or occupant of the property on which such trees are growing so that the lowest branches shall not be less than 15 feet from the roadbed and not less than nine feet from the sidewalk level. The Street Commissioner may, however, allow newly planted trees to remain untrimmed, provided that they do not interfere with persons using the sidewalk or obstruct the light of any streetlight or traffic signal. In case the owner or owners, occupant or occupants shall neglect or refuse to trim such tree or trees after being notified in writing to do so by the Street Commissioner, it shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner, after one week from the date of such written notice, to cause the trimming to be done and the cost therefor to be collected from such owner or occupant.

Trees standing on any lot or land adjacent to any public street or place and having dead branches or being completely dead, and being positioned that such branches or trees create a hazard to the public using the public street or place, should be removed by the owner or owners or occupant of the property on which such trees are standing. In case the owner or owners, occupant or occupants shall neglect or refuse to trim or remove such tree or trees after being notified in writing to do so by the Street Commissioner, it shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner, after one week from the date of such written notice, to cause the trimming or removal to be done and the cost therefor to be collected from such owner or occupant. Dead or dying trees standing on a public street or place shall be immediately removed by the Street Commissioner or under his supervision, upon verification that such trees are dead or dying by the landscape consultant. It shall not be necessary to get a permit to remove any storm-damaged tree that blocks traffic, creates a traffic hazard or in any way is detrimental to public safety or well-being.

Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, any property owner applying for subdivision approval whose plans would require the removal of any trees exceeding six inches in diameter measured at a height of four feet from the ground on said property shall make application to the Planning Board of the Village of Ardsley, which shall have sole jurisdiction regarding the proposed removal of such trees. The Planning Board may grant or deny such application on such terms and conditions as it may prescribe, it being understood that there must, in any event, be full compliance with the subdivision regulations of the Village of Ardsley.[1] The Planning Board shall make its determination after consultation with the Village of Ardsley's landscape consultant and may obtain the assistance, when necessary, of any other persons especially qualified by reason of training or experience in tree planting, preservation and landscaping. In the event that a property owner, subsequent to the filing of a final plat, shall require the removal of any trees which deviates from the plans approved by the Planning Board, reapplication must be made to the Planning Board.

The applicant shall submit plans to the Planning Board. Such plans shall be prepared by a recognized expert in the field and show existing and proposed contours at two-foot intervals on a map or plan at a scale of no smaller than one inch equals 50 feet indicating all trees, by variety, which are six inches and over in diameter [at a height of four feet]. Where trees are to be removed or destroyed, existing trees, specifying types and sizes, shall be shown and the reasons for removing or destroying said trees shall be set forth. The plans shall provide for new trees to be planted and specify their location and type to replace the existing trees in kind. When the existing trees are so large and mature that they cannot be replaced, the Planning Board may require planting of multiple trees instead.

The Planning Board shall require that a person or firm shall furnish the village with a performance bond, which amount shall be specified by the Planning Board as approved by the Village Attorney in an amount sufficient to cover 90% of the planting and restoration work to be completed in accordance with the plans accompanying all applications. The remaining 10% of the cost of restoration and replanting shall be in cash, deposited in a special tree preservation interest-bearing escrow account. The total amount of the bond and cash deposit shall reflect all restoration and protection costs and shall be in accordance with each set of individual circumstances. Upon completion of all planting and restoration work to the satisfaction of the Planning Board, the performance bond shall be canceled and replaced with a maintenance bond, the amount and term to be determined by the Planning Board and approved by the Village Attorney, but in no case to run for a period longer than two years. The 10% cash in escrow shall remain on deposit with the village until the maintenance bond expires, provided that the terms of § 185-11C are met.

All persons who remove or cause to be removed trees during development of a subdivision shall restore the area by backfilling all holes and be creating an acceptable grade and covering, subject to approval by the Planning Board. Any tree damaged during construction or development of the property shall be either replaced in kind or, where existing trees are so large and mature they cannot be replaced, the Planning Board may require the planting of multiple trees instead. Minor tree damage shall be repaired in accordance with accepted tree surgery practice.

Tree stumps shall be removed, not cut flush. After the planting of trees, removal of all debris in the disturbed area shall be made immediately. The property where such planting is done must be left in a neat and orderly condition, in accordance with good and acceptable planting and tree surgery practice.

All trees which fail to survive for a period of two calendar years following planting shall be replaced by the developer at no expense to the village or the owner of the land, if other than the developer. Said replacement shall be within 60 days following written demand for such replacement from the Planning Board or within an extended period of time as may be specified. Should the developer fail to replace the trees pursuant to demand within the required period of time, the Planning Board shall have the right to declare the maintenance bond in default and apply the escrow cash deposit and the proceeds of the bond to replace the required trees.

Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of committing a violation, the fine for which shall not exceed $250.