Town of Lewisboro Noise Control Law."

It is the purpose of this chapter to prevent unreasonable, unreasonably loud, disturbing or unnecessary noise which unreasonably interferes with the sleep, comfort, repose, health or safety of others.

As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:

No person shall make, cause or permit to be made any unreasonable, unreasonably loud, disturbing or unnecessary noise within the geographical boundaries of the Town of Lewisboro.

The following acts and the causes thereof are declared to constitute unreasonable, unreasonably loud, disturbing or unnecessary noise:

The use of any sound reproduction device inside a structure in such a manner as to result in the sound or any part thereof from such device to be projected therefrom outside of the structure or out of doors and heard from any residential dwelling.

The creation of noise in connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle between 7:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any day and at any time on Sunday.

The operation of any sound reproduction device on any boat or other vessel so that the sound therefrom is audible on land.

In the process of any construction, drilling or demolition operations, between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day or at any time on Sunday, to operate or use any tools, pile driver, pneumatic hammer, tractor, derrick, electrical hoist, gasoline- or electric-powered saw or other mechanical apparatus or equipment, the use of which is attended by noise.

The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing noise, shall annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of a reasonable person of normal sensitivities.

The playing of music or a sound reproduction device or the operation of any radio, television receiver or phonograph in such a manner and with such volume, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. the following day, of a degree as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of a reasonable person of normal sensitivities in any dwelling or residence.

The creation of any sound or noise from any device known as a "sound truck" or motor vehicle containing an amplifying system, whereby sounds, music or words are transmitted upon the public streets or highways.

The sounding of any horn or other auditory signaling device on or in any motor vehicle except to serve as a danger warning.

The operation of any self-propelled vehicle or boat which creates a noise of a degree so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of a reasonable person of normal sensitivities.

The shouting, crying or bellowing of peddlers, hawkers and vendors.

The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention to any business.

Yelling or shouting at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort and repose of a reasonable person of normal sensitivities.

Any other excessive or unusually loud sound which either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or safety of a reasonable person of normal sensitivities, except that the enumerated provisions of Subsections A through L of this section shall govern and regulate the actions and activities therein prohibited and nothing contained in this subsection shall apply to those actions and activities set forth in Subsections A through L of this section.

The owner, tenant and person in charge of the premises on which a violation under the provisions of this chapter has been committed shall be deemed to have permitted such violation on the subject premises and, as such, shall be guilty of such violation.

Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the production of music or the use of an amplifying system in connection with any military, civic or authorized parade, religious ceremony or at any school-sponsored or municipally sponsored activities.

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the sounding of bells, horns, sirens or any other instruments by a fire apparatus or station, police or any other vehicle or person in the event of an emergency or other such condition or situation.

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to sounds created by church bells or chimes.

The Town Board is hereby authorized, by resolution, to suspend any of the provisions of this chapter in connection with any holiday celebration or upon any occasion of special public interest, for such time and upon such conditions as shall be prescribed by the Town Board.

Any person violating § 160-5A of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation punishable by a fine of not less than $25 and not more than $500 or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed 15 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, if the structure from which the subject sound is projected is a residential dwelling.

Any person violating § 160-5A of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation punishable by a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed 15 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment, if the structure from which the subject sound is projected is other than a residential dwelling.

Any person violating § 160-5C, E, F, H, J, L or M of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation punishable by a fine of not less than $25 and not more than $500 or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed 15 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.

Any person violating § 160-5B, D, G, I or K of this chapter shall be guilty of a violation punishable by a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $1,000 or by imprisonment for a term not to exceed 15 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.