City of Peekskill, furthermore, takes note of the findings of the New York State Environmental Quality Review Act, among them being the obligation of the City to serve as a steward of air, water, land and living resources and the obligation to protect the environment for the use of this and future generations. It is the intent of the City to recognize these responsibilities in part by providing these procedures as well as to preserve the health and welfare and character of the community.

As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:

Except as provided in § 530-5, no person, firm or corporation shall conduct, directly or indirectly, any of the following activities unless a tree removal permit is obtained pursuant to this chapter:

Tree removal with a DBH of six inches or greater on any private property.

Carelessly or negligently cutting down, killing, or otherwise destroying or committing any act which will lead to the destruction of any tree with a DBH of six inches or greater on any private property.

Removal of any tree in any recognized and regulated federal or state wetland.

The following activities are permitted by right without the requirement of a tree removal permit.

Removal of any tree not regulated by this chapter.

Removal of any tree authorized by the City of Peekskill Planning Commission as part of an approved site plan.

Removal of any tree that creates an actual or ongoing emergency condition when such immediate tree removal is necessary for the protection and preservation of life or property.

Tree maintenance or pruning that does not damage the basic nature of the tree or reduce the size of the tree by more than 1/4 of its overall size and height.

Removal of any tree that does not create an actual or ongoing emergency condition requiring immediate removal which has been found to be dead, dying, invasive, insect-infested or otherwise hazardous as determined in writing by an arborist certified by the International Society of Arborists and submitted to the Building Inspector prior to removal of the tree.

Removal of trees to be done by or on behalf of the City of Peekskill.

Removal of trees required by electrical utility companies that by operation of law are exempt from the permit requirements of this chapter. All public electrical utility companies shall provide notification to the City and to the property owner of property where tree removal will be conducted, prior to the removal of any tree or trees.

Every application for a tree removal permit shall be made on forms provided by the Building Inspector and shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth in the consolidated fee schedule maintained by the office of the City Clerk. The application shall, at a minimum, include the following information unless otherwise waived by the Building Inspector as he or she deems to be not pertinent or necessary for the proposed activity.

The name and address of the property owner and applicant, if different.

The street address and Tax Map designation of the property.

A statement of authority from the owner of the property for any agent making an application.

The total amount of land area involved in the action.

The number of trees involved.

The purpose of the permit.

A sketch plan of the area of trees showing the number and location of all trees regulated by this chapter to be removed and those trees to be preserved, and any other information as may be necessary.

Specific information relating to:

The protection during development of trees to be preserved;

Grade changes or other work within the dripline of trees to be preserved;

The disposal of trees to be removed;

The replanting or planting of trees, specifying the location, species, size and completion date for the planting of trees.

A statement that the property owner and applicant shall indemnify and hold the City and its representatives harmless against any damage or injury.

Every tree removal permit shall expire if the authorized work has not been completed within 12 months after the issuance of a tree removal permit. The tree removal permit may be renewed for an additional period of six months upon the payment of a fee set forth in the consolidated fee schedule maintained in the office of the City Clerk.

Clear cutting is prohibited unless authorized by the Planning Commission in accordance with § 576-56 and upon payment of a clear-cutting fee as set forth in the consolidated fee schedule maintained in the office of the City Clerk.

Any site for which an application has been submitted shall be subject to inspection upon notice to the property owner and applicant at any reasonable time during normal business hours held by the City, by the approving authority or its designated representatives. The applicant, by making application for such tree removal permit, shall be deemed to have given its consent to such inspection.

There shall be an inspection fee as set forth in the consolidated fee schedule maintained by the office of the City Clerk.

Where a tree removal permit does not involve tree replacement:

The applicant shall notify the Building Inspector within one year after completion of all removals authorized under the tree removal permit.

The Building Inspector shall issue a certificate of completion after all removal(s) authorized under the tree removal permit are deemed to be completed according to conditions of the tree removal permit.

Where a tree removal permit involves tree replacement:

The applicant shall notify the Building Inspector within one year after completion of all replanting(s) authorized under the tree removal permit.

The Building Inspector shall issue a certificate of completion after all removal(s) authorized under the tree removal permit are deemed to be completed according to conditions of the tree removal permit and replanting plan.

An applicant or property owner shall replace all trees removed which removal requires a tree permit application pursuant to § 530-4 or which are authorized by an approved site plan with an equal or greater number of trees in accordance with the requirements of this chapter, or, in the alternative, shall pay a fee in lieu thereof in an amount set forth in the consolidated fee schedule maintained in the office of the City Clerk.

Tree replacement.

All trees that are removed shall be replaced in accordance with an approved replanting plan pursuant to a tree removal permit.

All replacement trees shall be a minimum of 2 1/2-inch diameter breast height.

All tree replacement shall occur the same property from which the tree(s) were removed.

Replanted trees shall be ecologically compatible with the site property from which the tree(s) were removed and neighboring properties. Replanted trees shall be of the same or similar species as those removed when practical. For all tree replacement, the applicant must use trees from the Department of Environmental Conservation's Native Flowers, Grasses, Shrubs, Trees and Vines publication list or through the Recommended Westchester County Native Plants for Homeowners and Landscapers list maintained by the Westchester Native Plants Center, which shall be made available by the City.

All replanted trees shall be maintained and in healthy conditions for a minimum of one year from date of replanting.

All fees collected in lieu of tree replacement shall be deposited into a trust fund to be used by the City for the purpose of planting and maintaining trees for public benefit on public property, including public streets, parks and other public spaces, for the furtherance of other associated work such as irrigation, design, inventories, management programs, or other actions that provide long-term sustainability for trees.

All fees paid in lieu of tree replacement must be submitted prior to the issuance of a tree removal permit.

The Director of City Services shall administer all funds in the Tree Preservation Fund.

The City Council hereby creates a "Tree Advisory Board," hereinafter referred to as the "Board."

Duties. The Board shall act in an advisory capacity to the City Council and shall:

Coordinate and promote Arbor Day activities;

Review and update a five-year plan to plant and maintain trees on City property;

Support public awareness and education programs relating to trees;

Review City department concerns relating to tree care;

Submit an annual report of its activities to the City Council;

Assist with the annual application to renew the Tree City USA designation;

Recommend tree species for planting on city property, and a list of prohibited species; and

Other duties that may be assigned by the City Manager.

Membership. The Board shall consist of two city staff members approved by the City Manager and one member selected from within the Conservation Advisory Committee. The City's Sustainability Coordinator and/or Tree Consultant may serve as staff support.

Officers. The Board shall annually select one of the members to serve as chair.

Meetings. The Board shall meet a minimum of four times each year. The Board chair may schedule additional meetings as needed.

Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of an offense punishable by a fine of $500. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.

Each tree removed, cut down, killed or otherwise destroyed in violation of this chapter shall be a separate and distinct offense.

Should the Building Inspector determine that removal, cutting, killing or destruction of trees for which a permit has been granted is not proceeding according to the permit, the Building Inspector may revoke the permit.