Village of Ardsley, NY

2025-06-02


Part I Administrative Legislation

Chapter 14 Environmental Conservation Commission






Chapter 14

Environmental Conservation Commission 

[HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Ardsley
7-23-73 by L.L. No. 1-1973. Amendments noted where applicable.]
GENERAL REFERENCES
Building construction — See Ch. 64.
Environmental quality review — See Ch. 102.

§ 14-1

Legislative intent. 

§ 14-2

Members; term of office. 

§ 14-3

Ex officio members. 

§ 14-4

Designation of Chairman; election of officers; records. 

§ 14-5

Powers and duties. 

§ 14-6

Annual report. 

§ 14-7

Compensation. 

§ 14-8

Construal. 

§ 14-1

Legislative intent. 

The preservation and improvement of the quality of the natural and man-made
environment within the Village of Ardsley, in the face of population growth,
urbanization and technologic change, with their accompanying demands on natural
resources, are found to be of increasing and vital importance to the health,
welfare and economic well-being of present and future inhabitants and require
forthright action by the governing body of the Village of Ardsley. It is recognized
that the biologic integrity of the natural environment on which man is dependent
for survival and the natural and functional beauty of our surroundings, which
condition and quality of our life experience cannot be protected without the
full cooperation and participation of all the people of the village working
in partnership with local and state officials and with various public and
private institutions, agencies and organizations. Establishment of a commission
for conservation of the environment is a necessary step in fostering unified
action on environmental problems.

§ 14-2

Members; term of office. 

A. The Commission shall consist of 11 members, of which
seven shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees and who shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board of Trustees, and the remainder shall be ex officio members
as provided herein.

B. Persons residing within the Village of Ardsley who are
interested in the improvement and preservation of environmental quality shall
be eligible for appointment as a member of the Commission. Vacancies on the
Commission shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointments
except that a vacancy occurring other than by the expiration of term of office
shall be filled only for the remainder of the unexpired term.

C. Terms of office shall be for two years, except that the
initial appointments at the establishment of the Commission shall be staggered,
such that three members shall be appointed for one year and thereafter for
two-year terms.

§ 14-3

Ex officio members. 

The following village officials shall be ex officio members of the Commission,
who shall have no voting rights but to whom regular reports shall be submitted
by the officers of the Commission:

A. The Village Manager.

B. The Village Attorney.

C. The Trustee for Public Works.

D. The Trustee for Recreation and Parks.

§ 14-4

Designation of Chairman; election of officers; records. 

The Village Board of Trustees shall designate a member of the Commission to act as Chairman thereof. At the first meeting of the Commission, its members shall elect from among themselves a Recording Secretary. The Commission shall adopt rules and procedures for its meetings. It shall keep accurate records of its meetings and activities and shall file an annual report as provided in § 14-6 of this chapter.

§ 14-5

Powers and duties. 

The powers and duties of the Commission shall be to:

A. Advise the Village Board of Trustees on matters affecting
the preservation, development and use of the natural and man-made features
and conditions of the village insofar as beauty, quality, biologic integrity
and other environmental factors are concerned and, in the case of man's
activities and developments with regard to any major threats posed to environmental
quality, so as to enhance the long-range value of the environment to the people
of the village.

B. Develop and, after receiving general approval by resolution
of the Village Board of Trustees, conduct a program of public information
in the community which shall be designed to foster increased understanding
of the nature of environmental problems and issues and support for their solutions.

C. Conduct studies, surveys and inventories of the natural
and man-made features within the Village of Ardsley and such other studies
and surveys as may be necessary to carry out the general purposes of this
chapter.

D. Maintain an up-to-date inventory or index of all open
spaces in public or private ownership within the municipality, including but
not limited to natural landmarks, glacial and other geomorphic or physiographic
features; unique biotic communities; scenic and other open areas of natural
or ecological value; and of the ownership, present use and proposed use of
such open areas, so as to provide a base of information for recommendations
by the Commission for their preservation and/or use.

E. Seek to coordinate, assist and unify the efforts of private
groups, institutions and individuals within the Village of Ardsley in accord
with the purposes of this chapter.

F. Maintain liaison and communications with public and private
agencies and organizations of local, state and national scope whose programs
and activities have an impact on the quality of the environment or who can
be of assistance to the Commission.

G. Consult and work in conjunction with the Ardsley Committee
for the Environment (ACE) to further refine, develop and improve the voluntary
recycling activities extant in the Village of Ardsley.

H. Prepare, print and distribute books, maps, charts and
pamphlets in accord with the purposes of this chapter.

I. Obtain and maintain in orderly fashion, maps, reports,
books and other publications to support the necessary researches of the Commission
into local environmental conditions.

J. When authorized by resolution of the Board of Trustees
of the Village of Ardsley, the Commission may accept by gift, grant, devise,
bequest or otherwise, property, both real and personal, in the name of the
Village of Ardsley, as may be necessary to conserve and otherwise properly
utilize open spaces and other land and water resources within the boundaries
of the Village of Ardsley. Such real property may be accepted in fee for land
and water rights, or as any lesser interest, development right, easement,
including conservation easement, covenant or other contractual right, including
conveyance with limitations or reversions.

K. Carry out such other duties as may be assigned from time
to time by the Village Board of Trustees.

§ 14-6

Annual report. 

The Commission shall submit an annual report to the Village Board of
Trustees not later than the first day of June of each year, concerning the
activities and work of the Commission and from time to time shall submit such
reports and recommendations as may be necessary to fulfill the purposes of
this chapter.

§ 14-7

Compensation. 

The members of the Commission, including ex officio members, shall receive
no compensation for their services as members thereof but may be reimbursed
for reasonable and necessary expenses authorized by the Village Board of Trustees
and incurred in the performance of their duties within the appropriations
made available therefor.

§ 14-8

Construal. 

This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the powers of the Village
of Ardsley to preserve and improve the quality of the natural and man-made
environment on behalf of the present and future inhabitants thereof. This
chapter is not intended and shall not be deemed to impair the powers of any
other public corporation.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.