

=== Article I ===

Town of Somers, NY


info

Part II General Legislation

Chapter 167 Wetlands and Watercourse Protection

Article I General Provisions





Get Updates

Article I

General Provisions 

§ 167-1

Findings of fact and intent. 

§ 167-2

Applicability. 

§ 167-3

Definitions. 

§ 167-4

Activities subject to regulation. 

§ 167-1

Findings of fact and intent. 

A. Findings of fact.

(1) Wetlands and watercourses are valuable natural resources
and serve multiple functions, including:

(a) 
Protecting water resources by providing sources
of surface water, recharging groundwater and aquifers, serving as
chemical and biological oxidation basins and functioning as settling
basins for naturally occurring sedimentation.

(b) 
Controlling flooding and stormwater runoff by
storing or regulating natural flows.

Providing unique nesting, migratory and wintering
habitats for diverse wildlife species, including many on the New York
State and federal endangered species lists.

(d) 
Supporting unique vegetative associations specifically
adapted for survival in low oxygen environments.

(e) 
Providing areas of unusually high plant productivity
which support significant wildlife diversity and abundance.

(f) 
Providing breeding and spawning grounds, nursery
habitat and food for various species or fish.

(g) 
Serving as nutrient traps for nitrogen and phosphorus
and filters for surface water pollutants.

(h) 
Helping to maintain biospheric stability by
supporting particularly efficient photosynthesizers capable of producing
significant amounts of oxygen and supporting bacteria which process
excess nitrates and nitrogenous pollutants and return them to the
atmosphere as inert nitrogen gas.

(i) 
Providing open space and visual relief from
intense development in urbanized and growing areas.

(j) 
Serving as outdoor laboratories and living classrooms
for the study and appreciation of natural history, ecology and biology.

(k) 
Protecting reservoirs and watersheds vital to
the community and to the water supply of New York City and Westchester
County.

(2) Considerable acreage of these important natural resources
has been lost or impaired by draining, dredging, filling, excavating,
building, polluting and other acts inconsistent with the natural uses
of such areas. Remaining wetlands are in jeopardy of being lost, despoiled
or impaired by such acts, contrary to the public safety and welfare.

(3) It is therefore the policy of the Town of Somers to
protect its citizens, including generations yet unborn, by preventing
the despoliation and destruction of wetlands while taking into account
varying ecological, economic, recreational and aesthetic values. Activities
that may damage wetlands should be located on upland areas.

B. Intent. It is the intent of the Town of Somers that
activities in and around wetlands conform with all applicable building
codes and other regulations and that such activities not threaten
public safety, the natural environment or cause nuisances by:

(1) Impeding flood flows, reducing flood storage areas
or destroying storm barriers, thereby resulting in increased flood
heights, frequencies or velocities on other lands.

(2) Increasing water pollution through location of domestic
wastewater disposal systems in wet soils; inappropriate siting of
stormwater control facilities; unauthorized application of fertilizers,
pesticides, herbicides and algicides; disposal of solid wastes at
inappropriate sites; creation of unstabilized fill; or the destruction
of wetland soils and vegetation serving pollution and sediment control
functions.

(3) Increasing erosion and subsequent sedimentation.

(4) Decreasing breeding, nesting and feeding areas for
many species of waterfowl and shorebirds, including those rare and
endangered.

(5) Interfering with the exchange of nutrients needed
by fish and other forms of wildlife.

(6) Decreasing habitat for fish and other forms of wildlife.

(7) Adversely altering the recharge or discharge functions
of wetlands, thereby impacting groundwater or surface water supplies.

(8) Significantly altering the wetland hydro-period and
thereby causing either short- or long-term changes in vegetation composition,
soils characteristics, nutrient recycling or water chemistry.

(9) Destroying sites needed for education and scientific
research, such as outdoor biophysical laboratories, living classrooms
and training areas.

(10) 
Interfering with public rights in navigable
waters and the recreation opportunities provided by wetlands for fishing,
boating, hiking, bird watching, photography, camping and other passive
uses.

(11) 
Destroying or damaging aesthetic and property
values, including significant public viewsheds.

§ 167-2

Applicability. 

A. General applicability. The regulations established in this chapter shall apply to all wetlands, watercourses and wetland/watercourse buffers as these areas are defined in § 167-3 and to any proposed regulated activity as defined in § 167-4B not physically completed prior to the effective date of this chapter.

B. Rules for establishing and interpreting wetland boundaries. The boundaries of a wetland ordinarily shall be determined by field investigation and delineation by a qualified environmental professional and subsequent survey and mapping by a licensed land surveyor unless waived by the approval authority. The approval authority may consult and/or may require the applicant to consult with biologists, hydrologists, soil scientists, ecologists/botanists or other experts as necessary to make this determination pursuant to the definitions contained in § 167-3.

C. Grandfathered projects. The provisions of this chapter
shall not apply to any land use, improvement or development that has
been physically completed prior to the effective date of this chapter.
As used in this section, the term “physically completed”
shall mean the actual completion of construction activities related
to a regulated activity, including filling, erecting structures or
other improvement or development activities.

D. Current projects. A regulated activity that was approved
prior to the effective date of this chapter and to which significant
economic resources have been committed pursuant to such approval but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter may
be continued subject to the following:

(1) All such activities shall continue to be governed
by the present regulations of the Town of Somers in effect at the
time of approval.

(2) No such activity shall be expanded, changed, enlarged
or altered in such a way that increases its size or impact without
compliance with this chapter.

(3) If such activity is discontinued for 12 consecutive
months, any resumption of the activity shall conform to the provisions
of this chapter.

(4) If any such use or activity is destroyed by human
activities, an act of God, or the forces of nature, it shall not be
resumed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.

(5) Activities or adjuncts thereof that are or become
nuisances shall not be entitled to continue.

§ 167-3

Definitions. 

A. Except where specifically defined herein, all words used in this chapter shall carry their customary meanings. Certain words or phrases used in this chapter shall be interpreted as defined below; and, where ambiguity exists, words or phrases shall be interpreted so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application in carrying out the regulatory goals stated in § 167-1.

B. As used in this chapter, the following terms shall
have the meanings indicated:

ADJACENT AREA
See “wetland buffer.”

ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT
A permit issued by the Town Engineer for certain activities in wetlands, as listed in § 167-4C, which have been determined by this chapter to be limited in scope and limited in potential impact on wetlands.

AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY
The activity of an individual farmer or other landowner in
grazing and watering livestock; making reasonable use of water resources
for agricultural purposes; harvesting the natural products of wetlands,
excluding peat mining and timber harvesting; and selective cutting
of trees to the extent that this does not conflict with state agricultural
laws. “Agricultural activity” does not mean clear cutting
of trees; filling or deposition of soil; mining; or draining for growing
agricultural products or for any other related or unrelated purposes.

APPLICANT
Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, organization or other legal entity of any kind, including
municipal corporations, governmental agencies or subdivisions thereof
and that is either the owner of land on which the proposed regulated
activity would be located, a contract vendee, a lessee of the land,
the person who would actually control and direct the proposed activity,
or the authorized agent of any such person, who requests the approval
authority to issue a permit.

APPROVAL AUTHORITY
The administrative board or public official empowered to
grant or deny permits under this chapter, to require the posting of
bonds as necessary and to revoke or suspend a permit where lack of
compliance to the permit is established. The approval authority shall
be:

(1) 
The Planning Board of the Town of Somers for any wetlands activity requiring a permit as specified in § 167-4B and for any activity included on plans submitted to the Planning Board for approval under other procedures, such as subdivision or site plan applications.

(2) 
The Town Engineer of the Town of Somers for any wetlands activity requiring an administrative permit as specified in § 167-4C.

AQUACULTURE
Cultivating and harvesting products, including fish and vegetation,
that are produced naturally in freshwater wetlands, and installing
cribs, racks and other in-water structures for cultivating these products;
but does not include filling, dredging, peat mining, clear cutting
or the construction of any buildings or any water-regulating structures,
such as dams.

BOUNDARY OF A WETLAND
The outer limit of the soils and/or vegetation as defined
under “wetland/freshwater wetland.”

CLEARING
As defined in Chapter 156 of the Code of the Town of Somers.

CREATION
To construct a new wetland, often by excavating and/or flooding
land not previously occupied by a wetland.

DAMS and WATER CONTROL MEASURES
Barriers used or intended to or which, even though not intended
in fact, do obstruct the flow of water or raise, lower or maintain
the level of water.

DATE OF RECEIPT OF APPLICATION BY APPROVAL AUTHORITY
An application shall be deemed received by the approval authority
on the date of the first regular meeting of the approval authority
following the filing of the complete application and supporting plans
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.

DEPOSIT
To fill, grade, discharge, emit, dump or place any material
or the act thereof.

DISCHARGE
The emission of any water, substance or material into a wetland
or wetland buffer, whether or not such substance causes pollution.

DOMINANT(S) or DOMINANCE
A dominant species is either the predominant plant species
(i.e., the only species dominating a vegetative unit) or a codominant
species (i.e., when two or more species dominate a vegetative unit).
Dominant species are considered to be those with 20% or more areal
coverage in the plant community. The measures of spatial extent are
percent areal cover for all vegetation units other than trees and
basal area for trees. In this chapter, “dominance” refers
to the spatial extent of a vegetative species because spatial extent
is directly discernible or measurable in the field.

DRAIN
To deplete or empty of water by drawing off by degrees or
in increments.

DREDGE
To excavate or remove sediment, soil, mud, sand, shells,
gravel or other aggregate.

ECOLOGIST/ BOTANIST
A person having knowledge of the physical, chemical and biological
sciences related to the physiology, identification and distribution
of native plants and vegetative associations in wetland and upland
systems and of methods to describe, classify, and delineate vegetative
species and associations.

ENHANCEMENT
The repair of a wetland in which some functions have been
degraded or lost, such that the degraded wetland functions are restored.

EXCAVATE
To dig out and remove any material from a wetland, watercourse
or wetland buffer.

FACULTATIVE SPECIES
Vegetative species that can occur in both upland and wetland
systems. There are three subcategories of facultative species: facultative
wetland, straight facultative and facultative upland. Under natural
conditions, a facultative wetland species is usually (estimated probability
of 67% through 99%) found in wetlands, but occasionally in uplands;
a straight facultative species has basically a similar likelihood
(estimated probability of 34% through 66%) of occurring in both wetlands
and uplands; a facultative upland species is usually (estimated probability
of 67% through 99%) found in uplands but occasionally in wetlands.

FERROUS IRON
The reduced form of iron found in waterlogged soils.

FILL
See “deposit.”

FIRE POND
Pond designated by the Fire Department to serve in this capacity.[Added 11-8-2007 by L.L. No. 11-2007]

FRESHWATER WETLANDS MAP
The final freshwater wetlands map for Westchester County
promulgated by the Commissioner of the New York State Department of
Environmental Conservation pursuant to § 24-0301.5 of the
New York State Freshwater Wetlands Act, or such map as has been amended
or adjusted, and on which are indicated the approximate locations
of the actual boundaries of wetlands regulated pursuant to Article
24 of the Environmental Conservation Law.

GRADING
To adjust the degree of inclination of the contours of the
land, including leveling, smoothing and other modification of the
natural land surface.

GROWING SEASON
The portion of the year when soil temperatures are above
biologic zero (5° C. or 41° F.) The growing season for Westchester
County is March through October.

HYDRIC SOIL
A soil that is saturated, flooded, or ponded long enough
during the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper
part and as further defined under “wetland.”

MATERIAL
Liquid, solid or gaseous substances, including but not limited
to soil, silt, gravel, rock, water, clay, peat, mud, debris and refuse;
any organic or inorganic compound, chemical agent or matter; sewage
sludge or effluent; or industrial or municipal solid waste.

MICROSITE
A small site supporting facultative or obligate vegetation
anomalous within the context of the larger vegetative unit. Microsites
may be drier or wetter than surrounding areas as a result of altered
drainage, incidental topographic variation or a related characteristic.

MINERAL SOIL
A soil consisting predominantly of and having its properties
determined predominantly by mineral matter. Mineral soils usually
contain less than 20% organic matter by weight.

MITIGATION
The creation or substantial improvement of wetlands in nonregulated areas, in degraded wetland areas, or in wetland buffer areas to lessen, ease or replace the functional capacity of existing wetlands that is lost as a result of the permitted activity. Wetland mitigation, referred to in this chapter as “mitigation,” requires the development and implementation of a mitigation plan, pursuant to § 167-9.

MITIGATION PLAN
The plan prepared by the applicant pursuant to § 167-9 when the applicant has demonstrated that either losses or impacts to the wetland or wetland buffer are necessary and unavoidable as defined in § 167-8D and have been minimized to the maximum extent practicable.

MUNICIPALITY
The Town of Somers, New York.

MUNSELL SOIL COLOR CHARTS
A soil color designation system that specifies the relative
degree of the three simple variables of color: hue, value and chroma;
produced by the Kollmorgen Corporation, 1975, or as amended or updated
from time to time.

NUISANCE
The use of land or an activity conducted on the land that
has, or is likely to have, a detrimental impact on the physical condition
of nearby land or on the health, safety, and welfare of people of
the surrounding area.

OBLIGATE UPLAND SPECIES
Plant species that, under natural conditions, always occur
in uplands (i.e., greater than 99% of the time). The less-than-one-percent
difference allows for anomalous wetland occurrences (i.e., occurrences
that are the result of human-induced disturbances and transplants).
Obligate upland species for the northeast are listed in the Wetland
Plants of the State of New York 1986, published by the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service in cooperation with the National and Regional
Wetland Plant List Review Panels, and as updated from time to time.

OBLIGATE WETLAND SPECIES
Plant species that, under natural conditions, always occur
in wetlands (i.e., greater than 99% of the time). The less-than-one-percent
difference allows for anomalous upland occurrences (i.e., occurrences
that are the result of human-induced disturbances and transplants).
Obligate wetland species for New York State are listed in Wetland
Plants of the State of New York 1986, published by the United States
Fish and Wildlife Service in cooperation with the National and Regional
Wetland Plant List Review Panels, and as updated from time to time.

ON-LINE POND
Any pond constructed over a stream.[Added 11-8-2007 by L.L. No. 11-2007]

PERMIT
The form of written approval issued by the Town of Somers
under this chapter for the conduct of a regulated activity within
a wetland or wetland buffer. A permit will include a wetland activity
permit issued by the Planning Board and an administrative wetland
activity permit issued by the Town Engineer.

PERSON
See “applicant.”

PHYSICAL COMPLETION
The actual completion of construction activities related
to a regulated activity, including filling, erecting structures, or
other improvements or development activities.

POLLUTION
Any harmful thermal effect or the contamination or rendering
unclean or impure of any wetland or waters by reason of erosion or
by any waste or other materials discharged or deposited therein.

PROJECT
Any proposed or ongoing action which may result in direct
or indirect physical or chemical impact on a wetland, watercourse
or wetland or watercourse buffer, including but not limited to any
regulated activity.

REMOVE
To dig, dredge, suck, bulldoze, dragline, blast or otherwise
excavate or grade.

RENDERING UNCLEAN OR IMPURE
Any alteration of the physical, chemical or biological properties
of any wetland or waters, including but not limited to change in odor,
color, turbidity or taste.

RESTORATION
To reclaim a disturbed or degraded wetland or watercourse
in order to bring back one or more functions that have been partially
or completely lost by such actions as draining or filling.

SILVICULTURE
The art and the science of controlling the establishment,
growth, composition, health, and quality of forest to meet diverse
needs and values of the many landowners, societies and cultures.[Added 9-10-2009 by L.L. No. 8-2009]

SOIL SCIENTIST
A person having special knowledge of the physical, chemical
and biological sciences applicable to the genesis and morphology of
soils as natural bodies, and the methods to describe, classify and
map soil units.

STATE ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY REVIEW ACT (SEQRA)
The law pursuant to Article 8 of the New York Environmental
Conservation Law providing for environmental quality review of actions
which may have a significant effect on the environment.

STRUCTURE
Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on or in the ground or attachment to something having location
on the ground, including but not limited to buildings, tennis courts,
in-ground swimming pools and other recreational facilities that create
impervious surfaces.

SUBDIVISION
The division of any parcel of land into two or more lots,
blocks or sites, with or without the creation of new streets, for
the purpose, whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership
or building development, and includes resubdivision.

TOWN ENGINEER
Any person employed by the Town of Somers as the Town Engineer
or engineering consultant.

WATERCOURSE
Any natural or artificial or permanent or intermittent public
or private water body or water segment, such as ponds, lakes, reservoirs,
rivers, streams, brooks or waterways, that are contained within, flow
through, or border on the Town of Somers. For the purposes of this
definition, “intermittent” shall mean that water stands
or flows for a total of three months in a consecutive twelve-month
period. A drainage ditch, swale or surface feature that contains water
only during and immediately after a rainstorm or a snow melt shall
not be considered to be a watercourse.

WATER QUALITY STANDARDS
As defined by federal and state water standards, including
but not limited to New York State, 6 NYCRR Part 703, Surface Water
and Groundwater Quality Standards, and US EPA Clean Water Act Section
303(c).

WATER TABLE
The zone of saturation at the highest average depth during
the wettest season.

WETLAND BUFFER
The wetland buffer is a specified area surrounding a wetland
that is intended to provide some degree of natural protection to and
separation from the wetland from human activity and other encroachment
associated with development. The wetland buffer shall be subject to
the regulations for wetlands as defined in this chapter and shall
be determined to be the area extending 100 feet horizontally away
from and paralleling the outermost wetland boundary or bank of the
watercourse or greater than 100 feet where designated by the approval
authority.

WETLAND/FRESHWATER WETLAND

(1) 
Areas of at least 5,000 square feet that comprise
hydric soils or are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water
at a frequency and duration sufficient to support and, under normal
circumstances, do support a prevalence of hydrophytic vegetation and,
that under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation
typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions, as further
defined by the Federal Manual for Interagency Committee of the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S.
Fish and Wildlife Service, and the U.S.D.A. Natural Resources Conservation
Service Cooperative Technical Publication.

(2) 
Watercourses shall be encompassed under the
term “wetland” as used in this chapter. For purposes of
identification, the minimum area requirement of 5,000 square feet
for the “wetland” definition shall not apply.

(3) 
"Wetland/freshwater wetland," as defined and regulated under this chapter, shall include lands and waters that meet the definition provided in § 24-0107, Subdivision 1, of the New York State Freshwater Wetlands Act (Article 24 and Title 23 of Article 71 of the Environmental Conservation Law) and have an area of at least 12.4 acres or, if smaller, have unusual local importance as determined by the Commissioner pursuant to § 24-0301, Subdivision 1, of the Act. The approximate boundaries of such lands and waters are indicated on the Official Freshwater Wetlands Map promulgated by the Commissioner pursuant to § 24-0301, Subdivision 5, or such a map that has been amended or adjusted pursuant to § 24-0301, Subdivision 6, of Title 23. The amendment to this subsection which extends the provisions of this Chapter 167 to wetlands regulated by the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation shall be subject to the applicability provisions of § 167-2 of this chapter.[Amended 6-10-2004 by L.L. No. 7-2004]

(4) 
The criteria below shall be used to determine
the presence of hydrophytic vegetation, hydric soils and wetland hydrology:

(a) 
Hydrophytic vegetation.

[1] 
The presence of obligate wetland species, particularly
as dominant, in a vegetation unit shall be considered diagnostic of
wetlands. Facultative species may be present but naturally occurring
obligate upland species cannot be present on other than microsites.

[2] 
Plants with adaptations to inundation or saturated
soil conditions shall be considered diagnostic of wetlands. Such adaptations
include but are not limited to pneumatophores, buttressed tree trunks,
floating stems, floating leaves, multiple trunks, hypertrophied lenticels
and inflated leaves, stems or roots.

[3] 
Any combination of the three categories of facultative
species (i.e., facultative wetland, straight facultative and facultative
upland) shall be considered indicative of a wetland if the vegetation
unit in which they occur has hydric soils and one or more hydrologic
indicators are at least periodically present during the growing season.
In addition, naturally occurring obligate upland species must either
be absent or present only on microsites or larger similar inclusions.

(b) 
Hydric soil.

[1] 
Technical definition. A “hydric soil”
is a soil that is saturated, flooded or ponded long enough during
the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part
and includes all soil defined by the following criteria:

[a] 
All histosols;

[b] 
Mineral soils that are somewhat poorly drained
and have a water table less than 6.0 inches from the surface for a
significant period (usually one week or more) during the growing season,
or poorly drained or very poorly drained and have either a water table
at less than 1.0 foot from the surface for a significant period (usually
one week or more) during the growing season if permeability is equal
to or greater than 6.0 inches per hour in all layers within 20 inches
or a water table at less than 18 inches from the surface for a significant
period (usually one week or more) during the growing season if permeability
is less than 6.0 inches per hour in any layer within 20 inches;

[c] 
Soils that are ponded for seven continuous days
or more during the growing season; or

[d] 
Soils that are frequently flooded for seven
continuous days or more during the growing season.

[2] 
Field evidence of hydric soils. The presence
of one or more of the following indicators shall be diagnostic of
the presence of hydric soils:

[a] 
Organic soils (histosols) or mineral soils with
a histic epipedon. Histosols are organic soils (mostly peats and mucks)
that have organic materials in more than half (by volume) the upper
32 inches of the soil profile unless the depth to bedrock or fragmental
materials is less than 32 inches or the bulk density is very low.
A histic epipedon is an eight-to-sixteen-inch soil layer at or near
the surface that is saturated for 30 consecutive days or more during
the growing season in most years and contains a minimum of 20% organic
matter when no clay is present or a minimum of 30% organic matter
when 60% or greater clay is present. In general, a histic epipedon
is a thin horizon of peat or muck if the sod has not been plowed.

[b] 
Gleying or mottling with a soil matrix chroma
of less than or equal to two in mineral soils, determined as follows:
Soil samples shall be taken at approximately 18 inches in depth or
immediately below the A horizon, whichever is higher in the soil profile,
and the sample shall be moistened if dry at the time of examination.
Munsell soil color charts shall be used to record soil matrix color
and mottle color (i.e., hue, value and chroma). Munsell soil charts
shall be used to establish the presence or absence of gleying. The
following diagnostic soil key shall be applied to confirm whether
the colors in the soil matrix are indicative of hydric soil conditions:

[i] 
Soil is mottled:

[A] 
Matrix is gleyed: hydric.

[B] 
Matrix is not gleyed:

{1}

Matrix chroma is less than or equal to two:
hydric.

{2}

Matrix chroma is greater than two: not hydric.

[ii] 
Soil is not mottled:

[A] 
Matrix is gleyed: hydric.

[B] 
Matrix is not gleyed:

{1}

Matrix chroma is less than or equal to one:
hydric.

{2}

Matrix chroma is greater than one: not hydric.

[c] 
Hydrogen sulfide odor.

[d] 
Iron or manganese concretions occurring as small
aggregates near the soil surface.

[e] 
Ferrous iron.

Hydrologic indicators. The following indicators
of wetland hydrology may be used to confirm that a site with hydrophytic
vegetation and hydric soils still exhibits hydrologic conditions typically
associated with such vegetation and soils but shall not be used to
determine wetland boundaries:

[1] 
Recorded data, such as tide gauges, stream gauges,
flood predictions, aerial photographs or other historical data.

[2] 
Visual observation of inundation.

[3] 
Visual observation of soil saturation within
the upper 12 inches of soil.

[4] 
Sediment deposits as a result of flooding.

[5] 
Drift lines as a result of flooding.

[6] 
Surface scouring as a result of flooding.

[7] 
Wetland drainage patterns, such as meandering.

WETLAND HYDROLOGY
The sum total of wetness characteristics in areas that are
inundated or have saturated soils for a sufficient duration to support
hydrophytic vegetation.

VEGETATION REMOVAL
The removal of any vegetation within the wetland or wetland
buffer.

§ 167-4

Activities subject to regulation. 

No activity shall be conducted in a wetland or wetland buffer, unless identified in § 167-4A as an exempt activity, without a written permit from the approval authority and full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. The Planning and Engineering Departments will make the final determination of which category below that an activity falls under. All proposed activities for the subject property must be reviewed cumulatively to determine the extent of disturbance proposed.

A. Exempt activities. The following uses shall be permitted
as-of-right within a wetland or wetland buffer to the extent that
they are not prohibited or regulated by any other law, ordinance or
regulation and to the extent that they do not constitute a pollution
or erosion hazard or interfere with proper drainage and provided that
they do not require structures, grading, fill, draining or dredging:

(1) Normal ground maintenance, including mowing, trimming
of vegetation and removal of dead or diseased vegetation around a
residence but excluding the use of fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides.

(2) Repair of existing walkways, walls, fences, driveways
and roadways, although not including a change in the surface material.

(3) Public health activities, orders and regulations of
the Westchester County Department of Health or the New York State
Department of Health for emergencies only.

(4) Deposition or removal of natural products of wetlands
in the process of recreational or commercial fishing, shellfishing,
aquaculture, hunting or trapping, but excluding excavation and removal
of peat or timber.[1]

[1]
Editor's Note: Former Subsection A(5) and
(6), which permitted in wetlands or wetland buffers certain cleaning
and maintenance activities related to fire ponds, sediment traps and
stormwater detention basins, was repealed 11-8-2007 by L.L. No. 11-2007.

B. Regulated activities subject to review of Planning Board. Regulated activities subject to review of the Planning Board include all activities within a wetland or wetland buffer other than those specified in § 167-4A and C and may be permitted upon written application to the approval authority. These regulated activities include but are not limited to:

(1) Placement or construction of any structure, roadway,
or driveway, including a change in surface material.

(2) Any form of draining, dredging, excavation or removal
of material, either directly or indirectly.

(3) Any form of dumping, filling or depositing of material,
either directly or indirectly, including silts, sediments or other
materials.

(4) Installation of any service lines, cable conduits,
or other utilities.

(5) Introduction of any form of pollution, including but
not limited to the installation of a septic tank or infiltration fields,
the running of a sewer outfall or the discharging of sewage treatment
effluent or other liquid wastes into or so as to drain into a wetland.

(6) Alteration or modification of natural features and
contours, or the alteration or modification of natural aesthetic values.

(7) Alteration or modification of natural drainage patterns.

(8) Construction of dams, docks or other water control
devices, pilings or bridges, whether or not they change the natural
drainage characteristics.

(9) Installation of any pipes or wells.

(10) 
Clearing, as defined in Chapter 156 of the Code of the Town of Somers.

(11) 
Removal or cutting of any vegetation except as permitted in § 167-4A.

(12) 
Deposition or introduction of organic or inorganic
chemicals, including herbicides, pesticides and fertilizers.

(13) 
Grazing of one or more horses or other animal and any agricultural activity which involves draining or excavation of a wetland, except as permitted in § 167-4A, to the extent that this does not conflict with state agricultural laws.

(14) 
Decorative landscaping and planting in wetland
buffers.

(15) 
Discharges or other activities which may cause
thermal changes to the water supply.

(16) 
Introduction of any non-native species of vegetation,
either directly or indirectly, other than as may be allowed by state
or federal regulation.

(17) 
Any other activity that may impair the natural function(s) of a wetland or the benefits derived therefrom, as described in § 167-1.

C. Regulated activities subject to administrative permit.
The following activities, when proposed for silviculture or a single-family
residential parcel, are determined by this chapter to be limited in
scope and limited in potential impact. The approval authority for
applications to conduct these activities shall be the Town Engineer.
Before issuing any administrative permit, the Town Engineer shall
review the administrative permit application with the Administrative
Permit Review Team, which shall include the Town Planner, an Open
Space Committee member selected by such Committee, the Building Inspector
and the Town's environmental inspector or consultant. The Town
Engineer may, at his or her discretion, refer any application for
an administrative wetland activity permit to the Planning Board for
its review and action. Activities for which an application may be
made for an administrative permit are:[Amended 3-11-2004 by L.L. No. 3-2004; 11-8-2007 by L.L. No.
11-2007; 9-10-2009 by L.L. No. 8-2009; 5-17-2012 by L.L. No. 3-2012]

(1) Removal of water-deposited silt, sand and other material
to restore preexisting land elevations and restoration of storm and
erosion damage.

(2) Construction, maintenance and replacement of driveways
and driveway culvert pipes within regulated areas, to serve an existing
residential home and other supporting improvements not located within
the wetlands.

(3) The application of nonpolluting chemicals and dyes
for the purpose of maintenance.

(4) Customary improvements associated with a single-family
residential parcel, including but not limited to the installation
of a deck, storage shed, an aboveground swimming pool, installation
of a fence, provided that these improvements are proposed only within
the buffer area of a wetland.

(5) Annual maintenance permits for certain activities
associated with lake communities, existing golf courses and office
complex.

(6) Sediment removal and operational maintenance of fire
ponds that meet the requirements of wetlands where located or designated
by the Fire Department.

(7) Sediment removal and operational maintenance of sediment
traps and stormwater detention basins and on-line ponds that meet
the requirements of wetlands.

(8) Silviculture
treatments within a wetland or wetland buffer on lands within a NYS
Agricultural District, lands enrolled in the NYS Forest Tax Law (NYS
RPT, § 480) and/or lands managed under a Watershed Forestry
Plan by the Watershed Forestry Program/Watershed Agricultural Council.

(a) For these lands, the administrative procedure and application process
will not unreasonably restrict silviculture treatments, as per NYS
AML § 305 and its subdivisions.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.



=== Article II ===

Town of Somers, NY


info

Part II General Legislation

Chapter 167 Wetlands and Watercourse Protection

Article II Permit Procedure





Get Updates

Article II

Permit Procedure 

§ 167-5

General procedures for permits. 

§ 167-6

Application for permit. 

§ 167-7

Public hearing and notice. 

§ 167-8

Standards for application for permit decisions. 

§ 167-9

Mitigation policy. 

§ 167-10

Action to grant permits. 

§ 167-11

Performance and/or erosion control bonds. 

§ 167-12

Monitoring and inspection. 

§ 167-13

Suspension or revocation of permits. 

§ 167-14

Compliance with other regulations. 

§ 167-15

Additional powers of the approval authority. 

§ 167-5

General procedures for permits. 

A. Application required. No regulated activity shall
be conducted without the issuance of a written permit from the approval
authority. Application for a permit shall be made to the approval
authority on forms furnished by the Planning and Engineering Departments.
When a wetland permit is required for improvements associated with
a subdivision or a site plan application, a separate wetland application
form is not required; however, a fee for wetland application review
is to be submitted in accordance with a fee schedule adopted by the
Town Board. The approval authority shall review the subdivision or
site plan applications using the standards established by this chapter.

B. Notice to agencies.[Amended 5-17-2012 by L.L. No. 3-2012]

(1) Where the Planning Board is the approval authority, upon submission
of a completed application, the Engineering Department shall forward
the application and plans to all interested agencies required by applicable
statutes, the Town Board, the Open Space Committee and any agency
so designated by resolution of the Town Board for an opportunity to
provide comment. A thirty-day comment period shall be provided after
the first acceptance of the complete application.

(2) Where the Town Engineer is the approval authority, upon submission
of the completed application, the Engineering Department shall notify
all applicable agencies having an interest in the subject matter and
the Town Board, Planning Board and Open Space Committee for informational
purposes.

C. SEQRA compliance. An application shall not be deemed
complete until and unless the applicant has complied fully with the
procedures of the State Environmental Quality Review Act.

D. Maintenance of files. All information relating to
a permit application, including but not limited to the application
itself, additional required materials or information, notices, record
of hearings, written comments and findings shall be maintained on
file in the Engineering Department.

E. Site inspections. The approval authority, its agents
or employees may enter upon any lands or waters for good cause shown
so as to undertake investigations, examinations, surveys or other
activity, including the review of applications and determinations
of compliance with permits, all for the purpose of administering and
enforcing this chapter.

F. Expiration of approval. All permits shall expire on
completion of the acts specified and, unless otherwise indicated,
shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of issue. An
extension of an original permit may be granted upon written request
to the approval authority by the original permit holder or his legal
agent. The approval authority may require a new hearing if, in its
judgment, the original intent of the permit is altered or extended
by the renewal or if the applicant has failed to abide by the terms
of the original permit in any way. The request for renewal of a permit
shall follow the same form and procedure as the original application,
except that the approval authority shall have the option of not holding
a hearing if the original intent of the permit is not altered or extended
in any significant way.

§ 167-6

Application for permit. 

A. Required data for a Planning Board application. An
application for a wetland activity permit shall be filed with the
Planning and Engineering Departments and shall contain the following
information:

(1) Name and address of the owner and applicant if different.

(2) Street address and Tax Map designation of the property.

(3) A statement of authority from the owner for any agent
making application.

(4) Statement of proposed work and purpose thereof and
an explanation why the proposed activity cannot be located at another
site, including an explanation of how the proposed activity is dependent
on wetlands or water-related resources.

(5) A list of the names of the owners of record of lands
adjacent to the wetland or wetland buffer in which the project is
to be undertaken and the names of known claimants of water rights
of whom the applicant has notice, which relate to any land within
or within 100 feet of the boundary of the property on which the proposed
regulated activity will be located.

(6) A description of all functions currently provided
by the wetland under review.

(7) A completed environmental assessment form.

(8) Copies of all applicable permits or permit applications
that are required for such work or, if application has not yet been
made, a list of all permits that will ultimately be required.

(9) Complete plans for the proposed site improvements,
which shall be certified by an engineer, architect, land surveyor
or landscape architect licensed in the State of New York, drawn to
a scale no less detailed than one inch equals 50 feet. Plans shall
be submitted in 14 sets. The plans shall show:

(a) 
The location of all wetlands, as determined
by a qualified individual identified on the plans (i.e., ecologist,
botanist, soil scientist), no earlier than 12 months prior to the
date of filing the application.

(b) 
The location of the construction area or area
proposed to be disturbed and its relation to property lines, roads,
buildings and watercourses within 250 feet.

The exact locations, specifications and amount
of all proposed draining, cut and fill, grading, dredging and vegetation
removal or displacement and procedures to be used to do the work.

(d) 
Existing and adjusted contours at two-foot intervals
in the proposed disturbed area and to a distance of 50 feet beyond
or greater as may be required by the approving authority.

(e) 
Elevations of the site and adjacent lands within
200 feet of the site at contour intervals of no greater than five
feet.

(f) 
A description of the vegetative cover of the
regulated area, including dominant species.

(g) 
A description of the soil types on site.

(h) 
Location of any wells and depths thereof and
any disposal system within 200 feet of areas to be disturbed.

(i) 
Details of any temporary or permanent drainage
system proposed both for the conduct of work and after completion
thereof, including locations at any point discharges, artificial inlets
or other human-made conveyances which would discharge into the wetland
or wetland buffer and measures proposed to control erosion, both during
and after the work.

(j) 
Where creation of a lake or pond is proposed,
details of the construction of any dams, embankments, outlets or other
water control devices and analysis of the wetland hydrologic system,
including seasonal water fluctuation, inflow/outflow calculations
(using Westchester County Soil Conservation Service method), subsurface
soil, geology and groundwater conditions.

(k) 
Where creation of a detention basin is proposed,
with or without excavation, details of the construction of any dams,
berms, embankments, outlets or other water control devices and analysis
of the wetland hydrologic system, including seasonal water fluctuation,
inflow/outflow calculations (using Westchester County Soil Conservation
Service method), subsurface soil, geology and groundwater conditions.

B. Required data for the administrative application.
An application for a wetland activity permit shall be filed with the
Engineering Department and shall contain the following information:

(1) Name and address of the owner and applicant if different.

(2) Street address and Tax Map designation of the property.

(3) Statement of authority from the owner for any agent
making application.

(4) Statement of proposed work and purpose thereof.

(5) A completed environmental assessment form.

(6) Copies of all applicable permits or permit applications
that are required for such work or, if application has not yet been
made, a list of all permits that will ultimately be required.

(7) Complete plans for the proposed lot improvements,
which may be certified by an engineer, architect, land surveyor or
landscape architect licensed in the State of New York, drawn at the
scale one inch equals 50 feet. Ten sets of such plans shall be submitted
with each application and show:

(a) 
The location of the wetlands as they exist in
the field or as shown on the Town of Somers environmental maps and
field-verified by the Engineering Department.

(b) 
Location of the construction area or area proposed
to be disturbed and its relation to property lines, roads, buildings
and watercourses and wetlands.

Existing and proposed contours at two-foot intervals
in the proposed disturbed area as may be required at the sole discretion
and request of the Town Engineer.

(d) 
Location of any existing structures, well(s)
and septic system(s), other improvements, easements or encumbrances
as required by the Town Engineer.

C. Application fee. An application fee, permit renewal
fee and engineering inspection fee shall be paid by the applicant
in amounts set forth in a fee schedule established by resolution of
the Town Board.

D. Additional data. The approval authority may require
additional information deemed necessary to evaluate the proposed activity
in terms of the goals and standards of this chapter, such as the study
of flood, erosion or other hazards at the site and the effect of any
protective measures that might be taken to reduce such hazards.

§ 167-7

Public hearing and notice. 

A. Scheduling of hearing. The Planning Board shall conduct a public hearing on each application for a wetland activity permit that requires action by the Board. Such hearing shall be scheduled no sooner than 30 days and not later than 60 days after receipt of a complete application as defined in § 167-6.

B. Notice requirements. A notice of a public hearing
on an application for a wetland activity permit shall be published
in the Town's official newspaper no less than 10 days prior to the
date set for such hearing. All owners of record of land contiguous
to the lot that is the site of the proposed activity and all known
claimants to water rights of the subject wetland shall be mailed notice
of the hearing no less than 10 days prior thereto. All applications,
maps and documents relating thereto shall be open for public inspection
at the office of the approval authority.

C. Coordination with other reviews. To the greatest extent
practicable, the public hearing on an application for a wetland activity
permit shall be incorporated with any other public hearing required
by the Town in connection with other aspects or related components
of the proposed activity.

D. Public hearing. All hearings shall be open to the
public. At such hearing, any person may appear and be heard. A record
of each hearing shall be made. The record of any hearing shall become
part of the permanent record of a permit application.

§ 167-8

Standards for application for permit decisions. 

A. Criteria to be considered. In granting, granting subject to conditions, or denying any application for a permit under this chapter, the approval authority shall evaluate wetland functions and the role of the wetland in the hydrologic and ecological system and shall determine the impact of the proposed activity upon public health and safety, rare and endangered species, water quality and the additional wetland functions listed in § 167-1. In this determination, the approval authority shall consider the following factors and shall issue written findings with respect to:

(1) The impact of the proposed activity and existing and reasonably anticipated similar activities upon neighboring land uses and wetland functions as set forth in § 167-1, including but not limited to the:

(a) 
Infilling of a wetland or other modification
of natural topographic contours.

(b) 
Disturbance or destruction of natural flora
and fauna.

Influx of sediments or other materials causing
increased water turbidity or substrate aggradation.

(d) 
Removal or disturbance of wetland soils.

(e) 
Reductions in wetland water supply.

(f) 
Interference with wetland water circulation.

(g) 
Reduction or increases in wetland nutrients.

(h) 
Influx of toxic chemicals or heavy metals.

(i) 
Thermal changes in the wetland water supply.

(j) 
Changes affecting natural aesthetic values.

(2) Any existing wetland impacts and the cumulative effect
of reasonably anticipated future wetland activities in the wetland
subject to the application.

(3) The impact of the proposed activity and reasonably
anticipated similar activities upon flood flows, flood storage and
water quality.

(4) The safety of the proposed activity from flooding,
erosion, hurricane winds, soil limitations and other hazards and possible
losses to the applicant and subsequent purchasers of the land.

(5) The adequacy of water supply and waste disposal for
the proposed use.

(6) Consistency with all applicable statutes or regulations
of comprehensive land use plans.

(7) The availability of preferable alternative locations
on the subject parcel or, in the case of an activity which cannot
be undertaken on the property without disturbance to wetlands, the
availability of other reasonable locations for the activity, whether
or not such locations are under the ownership or control of the applicant.

(8) The adequacy of the proposed mitigation plan in minimizing
the potential impacts of the activity.

B. Basis for denial. The approval authority shall deny
a permit if:

(1) The proposed activity may significantly threaten public
health and safety, result in fraud, cause nuisances, impair public
rights to the enjoyment and use of public waters, threaten a rare
or endangered plant or animal species, violate water quality standards
or violate other federal, state or local regulations.

(2) It finds that the detriment to the public, measured
by the factors listed in this section, that would occur on issuance
of the permit outweighs the nonmonetary public benefits associated
with the activity.

(3) Both the affected landowner and the local government
have been notified by a duly filed notice, in writing, that the state
or any agency or political subdivision of the state is in the process
of acquiring the subject freshwater wetland by negotiation or condemnation
with the following provisions:

(a) 
The written notice must include an indication
that the acquisition process has commenced, such as that an appraisal
of the property has been prepared or is in the process of being prepared.

(b) 
If the landowner receives no offer for the property
within one year of the permit denial, this ban to the permit lapses.
If its negotiations with the applicant are broken off, the state or
any agency or political subdivision must, within six months of the
end of negotiation, either issue its findings and determination to
acquire the property pursuant to § 204 of the Eminent Domain
Procedure Law or issue a determination to acquire the property without
public hearing pursuant to § 206 of the General Domain Procedure
Law or this ban to permit lapses.

(4) There is a viable alternative to the proposed activity's
placement in or encroachment upon the wetland or wetland buffer area.

C. Consideration of relationship of activity to wetland
site. The approving agency shall give consideration to the necessity
for a proposed activity to have a shoreline or wetland location in
order to function and that will have as little impact as possible
upon the wetland buffer. In general, permission will not be granted
for dredging or ditching solely for the purpose of draining wetlands,
controlling mosquitoes, lagooning, creating ponds or stormwater detention
basins, constructing residences or commercial buildings, providing
spoil and dump sites, or building roadways that may be located elsewhere.
The regulated activity must, to the extent feasible, be confined to
the portion of a lot outside of a wetland and wetland buffer. All
reasonable measures must be taken to minimize impact upon the wetland.

D. Determination of unavoidable impacts. When an applicant has demonstrated that either losses or impacts to the wetland or wetland buffer are necessary and unavoidable and have been minimized to the maximum extent practicable, the approval authority shall require preparation of a mitigation plan by the applicant pursuant to § 167-9.

(1) The following is the order of preference for mitigation
plans:

(a) 
Avoidance.

(b) 
Minimization.

Rectification by repairing or restoring.

(d) 
Reduction through preservation and operation
maintenance.

(e) 
Compensation.

(2) For the purposes of this chapter, wetland impacts
are necessary and unavoidable only if all of the following criteria
are satisfied:

(a) 
The proposed activity is compatible with the
public health and welfare.

(b) 
There is no feasible on-site alternative to
the proposed activity, including reduction in density, change in use,
revision of road and lot layout and related site planning considerations.

There is no feasible alternative to the proposed
activity on another site available to the applicant that is not a
wetland or wetland buffer.[1]

[1]
Editor's Note: Former Subsection E, Conservation Board report,
which immediately followed, was repealed 5-17-2012 by L.L. No. 3-2012.

§ 167-9

Mitigation policy. 

A. Mitigation required.

(1) After it has been determined by the approval authority pursuant to § 167-8D that losses of wetland or wetland buffer are necessary and unavoidable and have been minimized to the maximum extent practicable, the applicant shall develop a mitigation plan which shall specify mitigation measures that provide for replacement wetlands that recreate as nearly as possible the original wetlands in terms of type, function, geographic location and setting.

(2) All mitigation measures shall balance benefits of
regaining new wetland areas with the loss to other natural areas due
to wetland creation. On-site mitigation shall be the preferred approach;
off-site mitigation shall be permitted only in cases where an on-site
alternative is not possible.

(3) Mitigation includes, but is not limited to, remediating
activities that limit environmental damage, associated wetlands design,
civil engineering, surveying, plan development, earthwork, plantings,
maintenance, monitoring, evaluation of success, and replanting, as
necessary.

B. Mitigation plans, developed to compensate for the
loss of wetlands, shall include the following baseline data:

(1) Hydrologic data.

(a) 
Small projects (losses of less than two acres):
land use history, topography, general superficial geology and stream
flow measurements, groundwater levels and groundwater quality.

(b) 
Moderate projects (losses of two to 10 acres):
data required for small projects, plus bedrock geology, superficial
geology, stream flow velocity measurements, if appropriate, soil pore
water storage (organic soils) and direct precipitation measurements.

Large projects (losses of greater than 10 acres):
data for small and moderate projects, plus water balance analysis
(one-year study), groundwater storage, groundwater flow rates and
soil pore water level and flow (organic soils).

(2) Soils.

(a) 
Small projects (losses of less than two acres):
soil profile descriptions, general soil survey data, bulk density,
porosity, hydraulic conductivity, pH, cation exchange capacity, redox
potential, total phosphorous, total nitrogen, nitrate nitrogen and
organic carbon.

(b) 
Moderate projects (losses of two to 10 acres):
data required for small projects plus fiber content (organic soils),
phosphorous retention, pore water analysis (seasonally), alkalinity,
exchangeable acidity, seed bank capacity and soil organisms.

Large projects (losses of greater than 10 acres):
data required for small and moderate projects plus clay mineralogy,
microbial assessment (seasonally), heavy metals content, pesticides
residues, gas/toxin analysis (seasonally), peat features and soil
temperature regime.

(3) Vegetation.

(a) 
Small projects (losses of less than two acres):
areal wetland extent and qualitative measurement of percent plant
cover, plant species list, vegetation cover type, relative stem density,
animal species list, slope, microtopography, plant vigor, surface
water connections, habitat structure, vegetation/open water ratio
and surrounding terrestrial cover type.

(b) 
Moderate projects (losses of two to 10 acres):
data for small projects plus comprehensive animal species list, potential
phosphorous uptake and potential nitrogen uptake.

Large projects (losses of greater than 10 acres):
data for small. and moderate projects, plus quantitative measurement
of stem density, evapotranspiration data and net primary productivity.

(4) Monitoring schedule. A monitoring schedule for a specified period of time as agreed to by the approval authority, and which shall be in accordance with the provisions of § 167-12.

(5) Mitigation types. Mitigation may take the following
forms, either singularly or in combination, for disturbances in wetlands
and wetland buffers:

(a) 
For disturbance in a wetland buffer:

[1] 
Implementation of preventative practices to
protect the natural condition and functions of the wetland; and/or

[2] 
Restoration or enhancement (e.g., improving
the density and diversity of native woody plant species) of remaining
or other upland buffer to offset the impacts to the original buffer.

(b) 
For disturbance in a wetland:

[1] 
Restoration of areas of significantly disturbed
or degraded wetlands, at a minimum ratio of 1.5 (restored wetland)
to 1.0 (impacted wetland), by reclaiming significantly disturbed or
degraded wetland to bring back one or more of the functions that have
been partially or completely lost by such actions as draining or filling,
provided that the area of proposed mitigation occurs in a confirmed
disturbed or degraded wetland having significantly less functional
value as a result of disturbance or degradation; and/or

[2] 
The in-kind replacement of impacted wetland
by the construction of new wetlands, usually by flooding or excavating
lands in upland areas, that recreates as nearly as possible the original
wetland in terms of type, function, geographic location, and setting
and that is larger than the original wetland by a ratio of a minimum
ratio of 1.5 to 1.0. If the wetland area impacted is greater than
500 square feet, it is to be larger than the original wetland by a
minimum ratio of 2.0 to 1.0.

C. Mitigation plan becomes part of permit. Any mitigation
plan prepared pursuant to this section and accepted by the approval
authority shall become part of the permit for the application. All
mitigation plans shall include:

(1) A map with sufficient detail and at a scale that makes
it possible to determine where the wetland and/or wetland buffer is
located, its size, its boundaries, and its topographical features;

(2) Baseline data as needed to adequately review the effectiveness
of this plan.

(3) A narrative which describes the goals and specific
objectives for the mitigation wetland or wetland buffer, including
the functions and benefits to be provided and clear performance standards
and criteria for assessing project success;

(4) A description of the physical, hydrological, and ecological
characteristics of the impacted wetland and/or wetland buffer and
proposed restoration and/or created wetland and/or buffer in sufficient
detail to enable the approval authority to determine whether wetland
or buffer impacts will be permanently mitigated;

(5) Details on construction, including:

(a) 
Diking, excavation, or other means by which
the wetland will be restored or created, including existing and proposed
topographical contours.

(b) 
Construction schedule.

Measures to control erosion and sedimentation
during construction.

(d) 
Plantings: source of stock, procedures for transplanting/seeding
the stock, area(s) to be planted, and planting schedule. If vegetation
from the wild is to be used, identify the source and measures to prevent
introduction of undesirable exotics.

(e) 
Chemicals: If applicable, explain why chemicals
will be used and precautions to be taken to minimize their application.
Always protect the wetland and/or wetland buffer from excessive chemicals.

(6) Details on management of the mitigation site, including:

(a) 
Measures to assure persistence of the wetland
(e.g., protection against predation by birds and other animals).

(b) 
Vegetative management.

Sediment and erosion control.

(d) 
Plans for monitoring site during and after construction,
including methods and schedule for data collection and provisions
for midcourse corrections.

(e) 
Provision for bonding or other financial guarantees.

(7) A description of the periodic reporting, including
at the end of construction, during the monitoring period, and at the
end of the monitoring period; and

(8) Identify the name, qualifications, and experience
of the person(s) implementing the mitigation plan (i.e., contractor
who will restore or construct the wetland).

§ 167-10

Action to grant permits. 

A. Action may be subject to conditions. Any permit issued
pursuant to this chapter may be issued with conditions. Such conditions
may be attached as the approval authority deems necessary to ensure
the preservation and protection of affected wetlands and to ensure
compliance with the policies and provisions of this chapter and the
provisions of the approval authority's rules and regulations, if any,
adopted pursuant to this chapter.

B. Required conditions. Every permit issued pursuant
to this chapter shall be in written form and shall contain the following
conditions:

(1) Work conducted under a permit shall be open to inspection at any
time, including weekends and holidays, by the approval authority,
Town officials, the Open Space Committee, the Town Engineer or their
designated representatives.[Amended 5-17-2012 by L.L. No. 3-2012]

(2) The permit shall expire on a specified date.

(3) The permit holder shall notify the approval authority
of the date on which the work is to begin at least five days in advance
of such date.

(4) The approval authority's permit shall be prominently
displayed at the project site during the undertaking of the activities
authorized by the permit.

C. Additional conditions. The approval authority shall
set forth in writing and maintain on file its findings and reasons
for all conditions attached to any permit. Such conditions may include
but shall not be limited to:

(1) Limitation on the total portion of any lot or the
portion of the wetland on the lot that may be graded, filled or otherwise
modified.

(2) Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities.

(3) Imposition of operation controls, sureties and deed
restrictions concerning future use and subdivision of lands, such
as preservation of undeveloped areas in open space use and limitations
on vegetation removal.

(4) Dedication of easements to protect wetlands.

(5) Erosion control measures.

(6) Setbacks for structures, fill, deposit of soil and
other activities from the wetland.

(7) Modifications in project design to ensure continued
water supply to the wetland and circulation of waters.

(8) Replanting of wetland vegetation and construction
of new wetland areas to replace damaged or destroyed areas.

§ 167-11

Performance and/or erosion control bonds. 

A. The approval authority may require posting of a performance
bond as a condition of a permit, the amount, surety and form of such
bond to be approved by the Town Board. Such bond is intended to ensure
the proper completion of the proposed activity in accordance with
the approved plans, the restoration of the area to its natural condition
as far as practicable and consistent with the mitigation plan and
protection of adjoining property owners from damage resulting therefrom.
It shall remain in effect until the approval authority certifies that
the work has been completed in compliance with the terms of the permit,
whereupon the bond shall be released or reduced by the approval authority
after authorization of the Town Board. A substitute form of guaranty
may be provided as approved by the Town Board.

B. The approval authority may require posting of an erosion
control bond as a condition of a permit, the amount, surety and form
of such bond to be approved by the Town Board. The erosion control
bond is intended to ensure the proper installation and maintenance
of the erosion control measures during the permitted activity period.
It shall remain in effect until the approval authority certifies that
the work has been completed in compliance with the terms of the permit,
whereupon the bond shall be released by the approval authority after
authorization of the Town Board.

§ 167-12

Monitoring and inspection. 

A. Monitoring required. The approval authority shall
monitor or shall cause to have monitored activities granted permits
according to the specifications set forth in the permit to determine
whether the elements of the permit and mitigation plan have been met
and whether the wetland acreage or buffer created replaces the wetland
acreage or buffer lost. To this end, the approval authority may contract
with an academic institution and independent research group or other
qualified professionals at the expense of the applicant or may use
its own staff expertise. Where the approval authority deems monitoring
to be necessary, an applicant shall be required to post a bond.

B. Requirements of monitoring. The requirements for monitoring
shall be specified in the permit or mitigation plan and shall include
but not be limited to:

(1) The time period over which compliance monitoring shall
occur. Monitoring of mitigation plans shall be, at a minimum, five
years after completion of all construction activity on site.

(2) Field measurements to verify the size and location
of the impacted wetland area and the restored/replacement wetland
area.

(3) The date of completion of the restoration/replacement.

(4) Field verification of the vegetative, hydrologic and
soils criteria as specified in the mitigation plan and permit.

§ 167-13

Suspension or revocation of permits. 

A. The Town Engineer may suspend and/or the approval
authority may suspend or revoke a permit in the form of a stop-work
order if it finds that the applicant or permittee has not complied
with any or all of the conditions of such permit issued by the Planning
Board, has exceeded the authority granted in the permit or has failed
to undertake the project in the manner set forth in the permit approval
document.

B. The Town Engineer may suspend or revoke a permit in
the form of a stop-work order if it finds that the applicant or permittee
has not complied with any or all of the conditions of an administrative
permit, has exceeded the authority granted in the permit or has failed
to undertake the project in the manner set forth in the permit approval
document.

C. The approval authority shall set forth in writing
in the file it keeps regarding a permit application its findings and
reasons for revoking or suspending a permit pursuant to this section.

§ 167-14

Compliance with other regulations. 

No permit granted pursuant to this chapter shall
remove an applicant's obligation to comply in all respects with the
applicable provisions of all other applicable statutes or regulations,
including but not limited to the acquisition of any other required
permit or approval.

§ 167-15

Additional powers of the approval authority. 

In order to carry out the purposes and provisions
of this chapter and in addition to the powers specified elsewhere
in this chapter, the approval authority shall have the following powers:

A. To adopt procedures and policies that relate solely
to the organization or internal management of the approval authority
that are necessary or convenient to carry out the policy and intent
of this chapter.

B. To adopt, amend and repeal, after public hearing,
such additional rules and regulations consistent with this chapter
as it deems necessary to administer its provisions and to do any and
all things necessary or convenient to carry out the policy and intent
of this chapter.

C. To consult or contract with expert persons or agencies
in reviewing a permit application.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.



=== Article III ===

Town of Somers, NY


info

Part II General Legislation

Chapter 167 Wetlands and Watercourse Protection

Article III Enforcement





Get Updates

Article III

Enforcement 

§ 167-16

Penalties for offenses. 

§ 167-17

Restraining of violations; restorations. 

§ 167-18

Review and appeal. 

§ 167-19

Severability; taking without compensation. 

§ 167-20

Amendments. 

§ 167-21

Assessment relief. 

§ 167-22

When effective. 

§ 167-16

Penalties for offenses. 

A. Administrative sanctions.

(1) Any person who undertakes any regulated activity within
a wetland or wetland buffer without a permit issued hereunder or who
violates, disobeys or disregards any provision of this chapter, including
any provision of any permit issued pursuant to this chapter or any
rule or regulation adopted by the approval authority pursuant to this
chapter, shall be liable to the Town for a civil penalty of not more
than $10,000 for every such violation.

(2) Each consecutive day of the violation will be considered
a separate offense.

(3) Such civil penalty may be recovered in an action brought
by the Town at the request and in the name of the approval authority
in any court of competent jurisdiction. Such civil penalty may be
released or compromised by the approval authority, and any action
commenced to recover the same may be settled and discontinued by the
approval authority. In addition, the approval authority shall have
power, following a hearing, to direct the violator to restore the
affected wetland and/or wetland buffer to its condition prior to the
violation, to the maximum extent possible, within a reasonable time
and under the supervision of the approval authority or its designate.

(4) Any such order of the approval authority shall be
enforceable in an action brought in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Any order issued by the approval authority pursuant to this section
shall be reviewable in a proceeding pursuant to Article 78 of the
State Civil Practice Law and Rules.

(5) The Town will provide technical assistance to the
court if requested.

B. Criminal sanctions.

(1) Any person who violates an order, permit or rules
or regulations of the approval authority regulating wetlands and wetland
buffers pursuant to this chapter shall, for the first offense, be
guilty of a violation punishable by a fine of not less than $1,000
and not more than $2,000, for a second and each subsequent offense,
he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not less
than $3,000 nor more than $25,000 or a term of imprisonment of not
more than six months, or both.

(2) In addition to these punishments, any offender may
be ordered by the court to restore the affected wetland and/or wetland
buffer to its condition prior to the offense, to the maximum extent
possible. The court shall specify a reasonable time for the completion
of such restoration, which shall be effected under the supervision
of the approval authority.

(3) Each offense shall be a separate and distinct offense,
and, in the case of continuing offense, each day's continuance thereof
shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.

(4) The Town will provide technical assistance to the
court if requested.

§ 167-17

Restraining of violations; restorations. 

The Town is specifically empowered to seek injunctive
relief restraining any violation or threatened violation of any provisions
of this chapter and compel the restoration of the affected wetland
or wetland buffer to its condition prior to the violation of the provisions
of this chapter.

§ 167-18

Review and appeal. 

A. Appeal. Any party to any proceeding before the approval
authority may appeal to Somers Zoning Board of Appeals from any order
or decision of the approval authority, or any office or employee thereof,
issued or made pursuant to or within the scope of this chapter, provided
that such appeal is commenced by the filing with the Somers Zoning
Board of Appeals of a notice of appeal within 30 days after service
of such order or notice of such decision given, as the case may be.

B. Judicial review. Any determination, decision or order
of the approval authority or any appeal to the Somers Zoning Board
of Appeals may be judicially reviewed pursuant to Article 78 of the
Civil Practice Law and Rules in the Supreme Court for Westchester
County.

§ 167-19

Severability; taking without compensation. 

A. If any clause, sentence, paragraph, section or part
of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstances
shall be adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid,
such order or judgment shall be confined in its operation to the controversy
in which it was rendered and shall not affect or invalidate the remainder
of any part thereof to any other person or circumstances, and to this
end the provisions of each section of this chapter are hereby declared
to be severable.

B. In the event that any court finds the action of the
approval authority constitutes a taking without compensation and the
land so regulated merits protection under this chapter, the court
may, at the election of the approval authority, either set aside the
order or require the approval authority to proceed under the condemnation
law to acquire the wetlands or such less than fee rights therein as
have been taken.

§ 167-20

Amendments. 

This chapter may, from time to time, be amended
in accordance with the procedures and requirements of the general
statutes and as new information concerning soils, hydrology, flooding
or botanical species peculiar to wetlands becomes available.

§ 167-21

Assessment relief. 

Assessors and Boards of Assessors shall consider
wetland regulations in determining the fair market value of land.
Any owner of an undeveloped wetland who has dedicated an easement
or entered into a perpetual conservation restriction with the approval
authority or a nonprofit organization to permanently control some
or all regulated activities in the wetland shall be assessed consistent
with those restrictions. Such landowner shall also be exempted from
special assessment on the controlled wetland to defray the cost of
municipal improvements, such as sanitary sewers, storm sewers and
water mains.

§ 167-22

When effective. 

This chapter shall take effect 10 days after
filing.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.