

=== Article I ===

Article I Clear-Sight Triangles

No person in possession of property as either owner or tenant thereof shall erect, construct, install, plant, grow or maintain on any property located at the intersection of rights-of-way of avenues, streets or alleys any fence, sign, post, hedge, shrubbery or trees that exceed three feet in height above the nearest ledge of such intersecting corner of said rights-of-way of said avenue, street or alley, or any tree of which any branch shall be lower at any point than seven feet above said level of such corner of said rights-of-way of said avenue, street or alley to the end that persons driving vehicles upon either of such intersecting corner of said rights-of-way of said avenues, streets or alleys shall have an unobstructed view across the corner part of said premises to the other corner of said avenues, streets or alleys for a distance of at least 20 feet measured from the intersecting corner of said rights-of-way of said avenues, streets or alleys in either direction.

An offense against the provisions of this article shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $250 or by imprisonment for not more than 15 days, or both.



=== Article II ===

Article II Trees on City Property

The Commissioner of the Department of Public Works shall have exclusive jurisdiction, authority, control, supervision and direction over all trees, plants and shrubs planted or growing in or upon the public highways and public places of the City and the planting, removal, care, maintenance and protection thereof.

Except upon order of the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works, it shall be unlawful for any person without a written permit from said Commissioner to remove, destroy, cut, break, climb or injure any tree, plant or shrub or portion thereof that is planted or growing in or upon any public highway or public place within the City, or cause, authorize or procure any person to remove, destroy, cut, break, climb or injure any such tree or shrub or portion thereof; or to injure, misuse or remove or cause, authorize or procure any person to injure, misuse or remove any device set for the protection of any tree, plant or shrub in or upon any public highway or public place.

Any person desiring the removal, destruction, cutting or pruning of any City-owned tree, plant or shrub standing on City property because of the encroachment upon or interference with real property owned by any such person by such tree, plant or shrub shall make application on forms provided by the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works for such removal, destruction, cutting or pruning of any such tree, plant or shrub. Such application shall state the number, type and kind of the tree, plant or shrub to be trimmed, cut, removed or destroyed. If, in the judgment of the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works, the desired removal, destruction, cutting or pruning shall appear necessary, the Commissioner may issue a written permit for such work upon condition that any such work shall be performed in strict accordance with the direction of the Commissioner. Such work shall be performed under the supervision and direction of the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works or his duly authorized representative at the expense of the person receiving such permit.

Whenever, after notice to and inspection by the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works or his authorized representative, the Commissioner determines that any City-owned tree, plant or shrub is diseased, in a dangerous condition or an obstruction to any highway, sidewalk, sidewalk area or public place in such a fashion as to be a danger to public safety, the Commissioner shall cause the removal of any such City-owned tree, plant or shrub at the expense of the City of New Rochelle.

Whenever any City-owned tree, plant or shrub is removed or destroyed by any person with a permit therefor, as required in Subsection A above, such person shall, under the direction and supervision of the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works and at the sole cost and expense of such person, replace the same with another tree, plant or shrub placed either in the same place from which such tree, plant or shrub was removed or, if it is impossible or impracticable then at the discretion of the Commissioner, to replant in the same place or in any other place on public lands or parks, as directed by the Commissioner. Whenever any City-owned tree, plant or shrub is removed at the direction of the Commissioner as hereinabove set forth in Subsection B, then the Commissioner shall cause the planting of another tree, plant or shrub in the same place from which any City-owned tree, plant or shrub was removed, or if the same is impossible or impracticable in the discretion of the Commissioner, then such tree, plant or shrub shall be replaced on other public places or parks as the Commissioner shall determine. Any shrubs or plants removed as provided in Subsection A or B above shall be replaced with plants or shrubs of the same type and kind. Whenever any tree is removed as specified in Subsections A and B above, the new tree replanted shall be of Norway maple or such other species as is approved by the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works, but in no event shall any such new tree or trees be less than two inches in diameter at the base of the trunk.

It shall be unlawful for any person owning or using or having control or charge of gas or other substances deleterious to tree life to allow such gas or other deleterious substance to come in contact with the soil surrounding the roots of any tree, shrub or plant in any public highway or public place in such manner as shall kill or destroy or may injure such tree, shrub or plant. It shall also be unlawful for any person to cause, authorize or procure any salt, brine water, liquid dye or other substance deleterious to tree life to lie, leak, pour, flow or drip on or into the soil about the base of such tree, shrub or plant or onto any sidewalk, road, pavement or gutter therein at a point whence such substance is lying on or by flowing, dripping or scoping into such soil or in any other manner whatsoever injure such tree, shrub or plant, or to cause or procure such lying, flowing, dripping, scoping or injuring.

It shall be unlawful for any person, except with a written permit of the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works, to place or maintain upon the ground in any public highway or public place any stone, cement or other impervious material or substance in such a manner as may obstruct the free access of air and water to the roots of any tree, plant or shrub in any such highway or place. Unless otherwise provided for in such written permit, there must be maintained about the base of the trunk of each tree in such highway or place at least nine square feet of ground for a tree three inches in diameter, and for every two inches of such diameter there must be an increase of at least one square foot of open ground.

It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, authorize or procure a wire or other conductor charged with electricity to come into contact with any tree, plant or shrub in or upon any public highway or public place in such manner as may injure or abrade or shall destroy or kill such tree, plant or shrub. Every person shall, when and if the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works determines it to be necessary in order to prune or cut down any tree growing in or upon a public highway or public place, temporarily remove any wire or wires or cut off the electricity within 24 hours after service upon the owner of such wire or wires, or his or its agents, of a written notice signed by said Commissioner to remove such wires or cut off such electricity.

It shall be unlawful for any person to attach or keep attached to any tree, plant or shrub in or upon any public highway or public place, or to guard or stake for the protection of such tree, any rope, wire, chains, signs or other device whatsoever, except for the purpose of protecting it or the public.

It shall be unlawful for any person to tie any animal to any tree, plant or shrub, in or upon any public highway or public place, or having charge of such animal to allow or cause or procure it to injure any such tree, plant or shrub; or for any person in charge of such animal to cause or allow it to stand so that it can injure such tree, plant or shrub.

During the erection, repair, alteration or removal of any building or structure, it shall be unlawful for the person or persons in charge of such erection, repair, alteration or removal to leave any tree in or upon any public highway or public place in the vicinity of such building or structure without such good and sufficient guard or protectors as shall prevent injury to such tree arising out of or by reason of such erection, repair, alteration or removal. All moving of trees, plants and shrubs in or upon any public highway or place made necessary for the moving of a building or structure, or any other purpose, shall be done by the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works, or under his supervision, at the expense of the applicant. Should such moving or replanting cause the death of such tree, plant or shrub, the applicant shall replace the same at his expense.

Trees, bushes, or vegetation standing in or upon any public highway or public place and on any lot adjacent to any public highway or public place and having branches and/or vegetation projecting into the public highway or place shall, under the supervision of the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works, be kept trimmed by the owner so that the lowest branches of trees and vegetation shall not be less than seven feet in height and bushes and vegetation shall not exceed 3 feet in height. The Commissioner may alter vegetation height requirements, if geometric road conditions require it. In case the owner shall neglect or refuse to trim such trees, bushes, or vegetation upon being notified in writing to do so by the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works, after one week from the date of such written notice, the City or Representative may undertake the trimming and collect the cost of the work from the owner.

It shall be unlawful for any person to plant or set out any tree, or cause or authorize or procure any person to plant or set out any tree, in or upon any part of any public highway or public place without first obtaining from the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works written permit to do so and without complying in all respects with the conditions set forth in such written permit and with the provisions of this chapter. All applications for such permits shall be made on blanks furnished by said Commissioner and shall describe the work to be done and the variety, size and precise location of each tree. After the receipt of such an application, said Commissioner shall investigate the locality where the tree or trees are to be placed and shall grant a permit only if, in his judgment, the location is such as to permit the normal growth and development of each tree. Such permit shall specify the location, variety and grade of each tree and method of planting, including, among other things, the supplying of suitable soil. The permit shall be good only for the season stated in the year issued, and no charge shall be made for same.

Before any permit shall be issued for planting more than 25 trees on any one permit, the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works may request from the applicant a detailed declaration of intentions either in the form of a planting plan or written statement in duplicate.

All planting plans shall be drawn on tracing cloth in ink.

One copy of each plan or statement of intention shall, when approved by said Commissioner, be returned to the applicant, and the other copy shall be kept on file by said Commissioner.

All planting plans shall show accurately:

The proposed street, together with its subdivision of pavement, curb, gutter, parking strip and sidewalk areas to a definite indicated scale.

The proposed location of each and every proposed tree, together with the location of each existing tree within the proposed street line in scaled relation to other features of the plan.

The variety of each and every tree proposed to be planted and of those already existing within the proposed street lines, either indicated on the plans, or referenced with a number to key list.

The distance between trees in any one row, in feet.

The nature of the soil in the planting space to a depth of three feet and all existing and proposed surface or subsoil drainage system.

All statements filed in lieu of a planting plan shall contain the same information as required on the plan.

It shall be unlawful for any person to plant or have or keep growing a poplar, box elder, bass wood, willow or evergreen tree within any public highway or upon any public place or anywhere within the limits of the City, the roots of which will penetrate over, on or under the surface of any public highway or other public place. The Commissioner of the Department of Public Works is hereby authorized, empowered and directed to cause to be served upon the owner of any premises having therein any such tree or trees a notice directing such owner to remove such tree or trees within 20 days after the receipt of such notice. Such notice may be served by delivering the same personally to such owner or by leaving the same with any person of suitable age and discretion residing at or upon such premises or by affixing the same to such premises in a conspicuous place thereon. If, at the expiration of such period, the owner of such premises shall not have removed such tree or trees, or caused the same to have been removed, said Commissioner is hereby authorized, directed and empowered to enter upon such premises and remove such tree or trees. Said Commissioner shall thereafter mail to the owner or agent of such premises at his last known address a statement of the cost and expense of removing such tree or trees with the demand that the owner pay to the City Treasurer of the City of New Rochelle, New York, within 30 days from the date of such statement the amount thereof, and if such amount shall not have been paid within such 30 days, the cost and expense of doing such work shall be collected in an action at law.

The following regulations are hereby established for the planting, trimming and care of trees in or upon the public highways and public places of the City:

Trees must not be less than one inch in diameter of trunk one foot above ground.

All trees from one to three inches in diameter of trunk one foot above ground must be protected and supported by tree guards. When guarded with one stake only, the stake must be toward the prevailing wind.

No tree shall hereafter be planted at the intersection of two or more streets or within 20 feet of such intersection.

In cutting down trees, the same must be removed with the root stump grubbed out when so required by the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works.[Amended 4-15-1986 by Ord. No. 87-1986]

All cuts above one inch in diameter must be waterproofed.

Trees shall hereafter be planted at least 30 feet apart except when special permit is obtained from the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works.[Amended 4-15-1986 by Ord. No. 87-1986]

No tree shall be planted where the clear space between the curb and the sidewalk is less than three feet.

No tree shall be planted where the soil is too poor to ensure the growth of such tree unless the owner excavates a suitable hole of not less than 36 cubic feet and replaces the material removed with suitable loam or soil stripped from pasture land.

No tree shall be planted nearer than one foot from the curbline or out of the sidewalk unless a special permit is granted by the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works.[Amended 4-15-1986 by Ord. No. 87-1986]

No tree shall be planted on any street except of the variety selected by the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works.[Amended 4-15-1986 by Ord. No. 87-1986]

The Commissioner of the Department of Public Works shall have the right to plant, trim, spray, preserve and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues, lands, lanes, squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure safety or preserve the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. Said Commissioner, under the power here given, may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree, or part thereof, which is in an unsafe condition, or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers or other public improvement or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other pest. Said Commissioner shall also have power to enter upon any private grounds in the City and to spray or otherwise treat or cause or order to be sprayed or otherwise treated any tree or shrub or plant infected or infested by any parasite or insect pest when it shall be necessary in his opinion to do so to prevent the breeding or scattering of any parasite or animal pest, and to prevent danger therefrom to trees and shrubs planted in the public streets or other public places, and whenever in his opinion trimming, treatment or removal of any such tree or shrub located on private grounds shall be deemed wise, he shall have power to trim, treat or remove any such tree or shrub, or cause or order the same to be trimmed, treated or removed. The cost of the removal of a tree or trees by the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works shall be collected in an action at law. Notice to remove under this section shall be served personally at least 10 days before such removal on the owner or agent of the property, unless, in the opinion of said Commissioner, immediate removal is necessary for public safety.

It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere or cause or authorize or procure any interference or delay with the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works, or any of his employees, agents or servants, while they are engaged in and about the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any tree, plant or shrub in or upon any public highway or public place or upon any private grounds as authorized in the previous section or in removing any device attached to such tree, plant or shrub or in such removing of stone, cement, sidewalk or other materials or substances as may be necessary for the protection and care of any such tree, plant or shrub in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 301-7 hereof as to the area of open grounds to be maintained about the base of the trunk of each tree, on a public highway or other public place of the City.

An offense against the provisions of this article shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $250 or by imprisonment for not more than 15 days, or both.



=== Article III ===

City of New Rochelle.

As used in this article, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:

No person shall remove or cause the tree removal of any tree on a lot comprised of one acre or more without first obtaining a Tree Removal Permit from the City of New Rochelle.

No person shall remove or cause the Tree Removal from any Unimproved Lot comprised of less than one acre of more than three Trees in any given twelve-month period or any specimen tree without first obtaining a Tree Removal Permit from the City of New Rochelle.

No person shall remove or cause the tree removal of any tree from any lot while subject to site plan or subdivision review by the Planning Board, conditioned on the requirements set forth in § 301-23 below.

A tree removal permit may be applied for the removal of any tree as referred to in this section from the New Rochelle Bureau of Buildings.

An application for a tree removal permit shall be made by the owner or any other qualified person, firm or corporation authorized to perform the work on behalf of the owner. The request for tree removal shall be made to the New Rochelle Bureau of Buildings on forms available from the Bureau. The permit fee for each tree to be removed shall be as set forth in Chapter 133, Fees, of the Code of the City of New Rochelle. An applicant for a tree removal permit to be granted by the Planning Board in conjunction with subdivision or site plan approval shall comply with the public notification requirements of § A361-4 (Land Development) or § 331-121 (Zoning), respectively. An applicant for a tree removal permit to be granted by the Building Official shall provide notice of such application to all abutting property owners by certified mail, return receipt requested, at least 15 days before a decision on such application may be rendered by the Building Official. All post office receipts shall be returned to the Building Official prior to rendering a decision on the application.

A tree removal permit may be granted under the following circumstances:

Where the presence of the Tree would endanger the public, a neighboring property or the property of the owner. This tree may be removed only after inspection and concurrence by a Department of Public Works Tree Inspector. No fee will be charged for the removal of a tree that is determined to be dangerous.

Where the tree is diseased or threatens the health or safety of other trees. This tree may be removed only after inspection and concurrence by a Department of Public Works Tree Inspector. No fee will be charged for the removal of a tree that is determined to be diseased.

Where a tree substantially interferes with proposed construction on or development of the lot(s). This determination shall be made by the Planning Board as part of subdivision and site plan review and by the Building Official, who is the Zoning Enforcement Official, for all other matters. A fee will be charged for the removal of a tree that is determined to interfere with proposed construction on or development of the lot(s), as set forth in Chapter 133, Fees, of the Code of the City of New Rochelle.

Any application to the Planning Board for a subdivision or site plan approval filed pursuant to Chapter A361, Land Development, or Chapter 331, Zoning, shall include a landscape plan and schedule showing all existing trees and their DBH as well as trees to be removed and trees proposed to be planted, with their DBH. No separate tree removal permit application is needed for said application.

A performance and maintenance bond, cash deposit or other surety, acceptable to the Corporation Counsel, shall be posted by the applicant to guarantee the planting of trees and the maintenance of trees as shown on the approved plans for a period of five years, in accordance with § 331-119B(4)(a) of the Zoning Code. The amount of the bond shall be determined by the Building Official for subdivisions or site plans in accordance with § 331-119B(4)(a).

For any lot(s) of any size submitted to the Planning Board for site plan or subdivision approval, a replacement tree(s) from the official list of acceptable trees as issued by the Commissioner of Public Works shall be planted for every tree which is removed or proposed to be removed. The Planning Board shall have the authority to determine which trees substantially interfere with proposed construction on or development on the lot(s).

For all other lots, which lots are not subject to active review by the Planning Board, a replacement tree(s) from the official list of acceptable trees as issued by the Commissioner of Public Works shall be planted for every tree that is removed or proposed to be removed for whatever reason and requiring a tree removal permit pursuant to § 301-21. The Building Official shall have the authority to determine which trees substantially interfere with proposed construction on or development of the lot(s).

To mitigate the removal or proposed removal of any tree, the property owner shall plant new trees with a minimum caliper of two inches each, which trees in aggregate shall have a DBH at the time of planting equal to the total DBH of the tree(s) removed on that lot(s). Each tree removed must be replaced by at least one tree of the same species, provided that such species is on the official list of acceptable trees, as issued by the Commissioner of Public Works. In lieu of planting replacement trees on that lot(s) and only when technically impractical or impossible, a fee shall be paid to the City Tree Fund to defray the City's costs for acquisition, maintenance, and planting of trees on City properties, in accordance with Chapter 133, Fees, of the New Rochelle City Code. The total amount required to be paid as a fee-in-lieu shall be determined by the difference between the total DBH of existing trees which are removed or proposed to be removed from the lot(s), pursuant to the tree removal permit requirements, and the total DBH of new trees at the time of planting which are proposed to replace the trees removed. Such new tree planting and/or payment of fee-in-lieu shall be satisfied within one year of the date of approval of a tree removal permit, except as such conditions may be extended for one year, in accordance with these regulations.[Amended 4-20-2006 by Ord. No. 80-2006]

The planting of tree(s) shall be in accordance with the specifications of the landscape nursery from which the tree(s) is purchased or of a licensed design professional. Lacking specifications, the planting of trees shall be as follows:

For every inch of tree DBH planted, there shall be a minimum of nine square feet of pervious soil surrounding the tree trunk to allow water and air to the tree roots. For a minimum two-inch DBH tree, therefore, there shall be a minimum of 18 square feet of pervious soil surrounding the tree trunk.

No tree trunk shall be planted closer to another tree trunk, existing or proposed, with less than 20 feet of horizontal spacing. In the case that a landscape nursery from which the tree is purchased or a licensed design professional recommends a greater horizontal spacing such spacing shall govern.

Trees shall be planted during the period from September 1 to May 15.

The following activities are permitted by right:

Removal of any tree on an improved lot of less than one acre; removal of any tree on federal, county, state, and municipal properties, and the removal of any tree not regulated by this chapter.

Removal of any tree under an actual or ongoing emergency condition, when such tree removal is necessary for the immediate protection and preservation of life or property.

Removal of trees with a DBH of less than eight inches.

Removal of two or fewer trees within a given twelve-month period on any unimproved tax lot comprised of less than one acre.

In making its determination to grant, deny, or grant with conditions a tree removal permit under this article, the approving authority shall consider the following factors:

Whether the proposed tree removal is consistent with the purpose and findings of this article as set forth in § 301-19.

The environmental impact of the proposed tree removal.

The possible or practicable alternatives to the proposed tree removal.

In addition, the tree removal of a regulated tree will be favored:

If the tree is in poor health with an expected life span less than two years as determined by a professional forester, landscape architect, arborist, or other design professional.

If the tree is located near existing or proposed improvements, especially if it is:

Within three feet of an existing or proposed sidewalk or driveway.

Within 10 feet of an existing or proposed dry well, leaching pit, drain or other subsurface improvement.

Within 10 feet of an existing or proposed roadway.

Within 10 feet of any other existing or proposed structure.

If the tree removal(s) will have a positive effect upon:

Drainage patterns in the vicinity.

Growth of existing or proposed adjacent vegetation.

The health, safety or welfare of the residents of New Rochelle or its neighboring communities.

Solar access and shading of nearby properties and that of the property owner.

With consideration of the above factors, the proposed tree removal may be granted with conditions or denied:

If the tree is a specimen tree, as defined.

If the tree removal(s) will have significant negative effects upon:

Erosion potential and drainage patterns in the vicinity.

Growth of existing adjacent vegetation.

The health, safety or welfare of the residents of New Rochelle or its neighboring communities.

Solar access and shading of nearby properties.

If the tree to be removed is of a species listed on the New York State list of endangered trees or trees of special concern.

In cases where the Building Official is the approving authority, the applicant will be notified of permit decisions in writing, if approved. If the permit is denied, the applicant will be notified in writing by the Building Official of the reason or reasons for such denial.

In cases where the Planning Board is the approving authority, specifically for all site plans and subdivisions involving tree removal and tree planting, the applicant will be notified by a resolution by the Planning Board, which resolution will be filed with the City Clerk, with a copy sent to the applicant. Any permit issued pursuant to this article may be issued with conditions. Such conditions may be attached as the approving authority deems necessary to ensure compliance with the policies and provisions of this article. The conditions for posting a performance and maintenance bond, cash deposit or other surety acceptable to Corporation Counsel shall also be stated in the resolution of the Planning Board, in the case of a subdivision or site plan.

The Building Official may suspend or revoke a permit issued by the Bureau or by the Planning Board in the form of a stop-work order if it is found that the applicant has not complied with any or all of the terms of such permit, has exceeded the authority granted in the permit or has failed to undertake the project in the manner set forth in the approved application.

The applicant shall receive written notice of said stop-work order, which notice shall be delivered personally or by certified mail and addressed to the applicant's address as shown on the permit.

The Building Official shall set forth in writing its findings and reasons for revoking or suspending a permit pursuant to this section and keep a copy in the permit application file.

No permit shall be valid for more than one year after approval of an application by the approving authority unless otherwise specified by the approving authority. All permits shall expire on completion of the work specified therein and all required placement trees have been planted and/or all fees in lieu of planting have been paid. The validity of any work duly completed pursuant to an existing permit shall not be affected by the expiration of the permit, but such work shall not be continued beyond the expiration date. In the case of tree plantings required in conjunction with subdivision or site plan approval, the applicant may be granted up to one additional one-year extension of approval, as authorized by the Zoning and Land Development Codes.

No permit granted pursuant to this article shall remove an applicant's obligation to comply in all respects with the applicable provisions of any other federal, state or local law or regulation, including but not limited to the securing of any other required permit or approval.

Any site for which an application has been submitted shall be subject to inspection upon notice to the property owner and/or applicant at any reasonable time, including weekends and holidays, by the Building Official or designated representatives. The applicant, by making application for such permit, shall be deemed to have given its consent to such inspection.

Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a violation pursuant to the Penal Law of the State of New York, punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or by imprisonment for a term not exceeding 15 days, or both. Each tree removed, cut down or destroyed in violation of this article and each day such violation continues shall amount to a separate violation.

In addition to any other penalty, the violator shall be required to replace (in kind) each and every tree removed, cut down or destroyed in violation of this article, or pay a fee in lieu of such on-site replacement, all in accordance with the replacement provisions of § 301-24. No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any new construction on the property on which any violation of the article occurred unless and until the provisions of this article have been satisfied.

The Building Official shall enforce this article.