New Castle Form

FEES AND PAYMENTS:
• Fee: Amount Paid:
• q Fees $ 30.00 up to 3 trees, $ 15.00 for each additional tree, payable to Town of New Castle.
• (Buffer: R-1/4 acre = 5 feet; R-1/2 acre = 10 feet; R-1 acre = 15 feet; R-2 acre = 25 feet)
• @4.5 feet above
• If you are removing three (3) or more trees, written notification is required of all property owners within 100 feet of the
• removals. You are receiving this notice because your property is located within 100 feet of the boundaries of
• The Building Department will provide a list of homeowners within 100 feet upon request.

INSTRUCTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
• Public Notice Required    Yes    No
• q Please submit one (1) signed copy of Tree Permit Application Form to the Building & Engineering Department.
• 2) Applicant: (if not homeowner, provide name of agent, tree company and/or arborist)
• 4) Purpose of Tree Removal: (If additional space is needed, please attach a separate sheet)
• q Other, please explain:
• 5) List Trees to be Removed: (If additional space is needed, please attach a separate sheet)
• If you are removing three (3) or more trees, written notification is required of all property owners within 100 feet of the
• boundary of the property. Please fill out Attachment A: Notice of Application and Mailing and mail this completed
• 9) Please Locate Approximate Location of Tree(s) to be Removed. Indicate location of trees on the sketch below
• or attach a survey of property with location indicated. Attach Digital Photographs, and place a ribbon or tag on
• Please list any other Applications pending with the Town of New Castle that are associated with this permit or the
• The Applicant hereby acknowledges that any false or misleading statements or information provided on this Tree
• for any activities conducted without a required tree permit.
• Where healthy Trees or Trees considered to be in Fair or better Condition are being removed, you will be required to
• replace 50% of the total aggregate diameter (DBH) of trees removed with new trees. If Tree Replacement is required,
• may use your own Arborist to evaluate a Tree’s condition and submit the Arborist’s findings with your application,
• ATTACHMENT A
• PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that a Tree Removal Permit Application for the removal of three (3) or more trees
• has been submitted to the Environmental Coordinator pursuant to Section 121-5 of the Code of the Town of
• New Castle by the Property Owner listed above. Please note that the Tree Removal Permit Application is
• Board. The appeal application must set forth the reasons for such appeal.
• status of the Tree Removal Permit, please contact the Environmental Coordinator at (914) 238-7278.
• The Building Department will provide a list of homeowners within 100 feet upon request.
• ATTACHMENT B
• I certify that I have sent Attachment A, Notice of Intent to Remove Trees (the “Notice”) to the
• homeowners listed below. Attached are return receipts from said mailing and a copy of each notice.
• (If more space is required, please attach a separate page)

DEPARTMENT INFORMATION:
• q Please submit one (1) signed copy of Tree Permit Application Form to the Building & Engineering Department.
• Phone: (Home) (Cell) E-mail:
• Phone: (Work/Cell)
• Phone No. of Property Owner
• Department. All applications for tree removal permits, shall be approved, approved with conditions, denied
• status of the Tree Removal Permit, please contact the Environmental Coordinator at (914) 238-7278.
• The Building Department will provide a list of homeowners within 100 feet upon request.
• Phone #:

RAW FORM CONTENT:
TOWN of NEW CASTLE 
TREE REMOVAL PERMIT APPLICATION 
200 South Greeley Avenue, Chappaqua, NY 10514 
Office (914) 238-4723 Fax (914) 238-5177 
 
Date Application Received  
Permit Number Assigned   
Public Notice Required    Yes    No 
Fee: Amount Paid:  
q Please submit one (1) signed copy of Tree Permit Application Form to the Building & Engineering Department. 
q Fees $ 30.00 up to 3 trees, $ 15.00 for each additional tree, payable to Town of New Castle. 
  
1) Property Owner: 
 
Name: 
Address: 
Phone: (Home) (Cell) E-mail: 
   
2) Applicant: (if not homeowner, provide name of agent, tree company and/or arborist) 
Agent/Tree Company: 
 
Phone: (Work/Cell) 
 
E-mail 
 
Address 
3) Property where work will be performed: 
Address: 
Tax Map ID: Section  Block   Lot(s)  Zoning District:  
4) Purpose of Tree Removal: (If additional space is needed, please attach a separate sheet) 
q Clearing (10 or more trees to be removed) 
q Removal of Tree(s) within Regulated Landscape Buffer Zone (applies to trees 4” dbh or greater) 
(Buffer: R-1/4 acre = 5 feet; R-1/2 acre = 10 feet; R-1 acre = 15 feet; R-2 acre = 25 feet) 
q Removal of Tree(s) Outside of Regulated Landscape Buffer Zone (applies to trees 8 “ dbh or greater) 
q Removal of a Specimen Tree(s) (all trees 24 “ dbh or greater) 
q Other, please explain: 
5) List Trees to be Removed: (If additional space is needed, please attach a separate sheet) 
 
Species Size (dbh) 
@4.5 feet above 
ground 
Location 
(Front, Side, 
or 
Rear Yard) 
Condition Reason for Removal 
(Hazardous Tree, 
Tree in Way of 
Planned 
Improvements, etc.) 
 
1. 
    
 
2. 
    
 
3. 
    
 
4. 
    
 
5. 
    
Total Number of Trees to be Removed   
6) Public Notice Requirements 
If you are removing three (3) or more trees, written notification is required of all property owners within 100 feet of the 
boundary of the property. Please fill out Attachment A: Notice of Application and Mailing and mail this completed 
form to your neighbors. 

9) Please Locate Approximate Location of Tree(s) to be Removed. Indicate location of trees on the sketch below 
or attach a survey of property with location indicated. Attach Digital Photographs, and place a ribbon or tag on 
each tree to be removed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please list any other Applications pending with the Town of New Castle that are associated with this permit or the 
property in question. 
 Building Permit, Permit #   Zoning Board  Wetlands Permit  Planning Board 
 
 
 
Show location of trees: 
 
 
House 
 
10) Owner’s Authorization and Certification: 
The Undersigned Applicant (owner) agrees to comply with the Town of New Castle Code, Chapter 121 Tree 
Preservation, regarding tree removal (the “Tree Ordinance”). The Applicant hereby grants permission to the Town of 
New Castle for Town employees and or designees to enter the above property to inspect the trees for which removal is 
being requested. By making this application the applicant agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Town, its 
officers, employees and designees or agents against any damage or injury that may be caused by, or arise out of, any 
entry onto the subject property in connection with the processing of this application. 
The Applicant hereby acknowledges that any false or misleading statements or information provided on this Tree 
Removal Permit Application or to the Approving Authority shall result in the invalidation of any previous 
authorization. In addition, the Applicant shall be subject to the penalties and sanctions set forth in the Tree Ordinance 
for any activities conducted without a required tree permit. 
 
 
 
  
Signature of Owner Print Owner’s Name Date 
 
 
   
Signature of Agent Print Agent’s Name Date 
NOTE: The completion of this Tree Permit Application Form does not bestow any rights, privileges, licenses, permits or other 
entitlements upon the applicant and does not relieve the applicant from compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations of the 
Town of New Castle. 
8) Other Permits and Approvals 
7) Tree Replacement Requirements 
Where healthy Trees or Trees considered to be in Fair or better Condition are being removed, you will be required to 
replace 50% of the total aggregate diameter (DBH) of trees removed with new trees. If Tree Replacement is required, 
 
Note: The Condition of each Tree to be removed will be determined by the Town’s Environmental Coordinator. You 
may use your own Arborist to evaluate a Tree’s condition and submit the Arborist’s findings with your application, 
however, the final determination will be made by the Town’s Environmental Coordinator. 

ATTACHMENT A 
 
 
 
Town of New Castle 
Neighbor Notification Form 
Notice of Intent to Remove Trees 
 
 
 
Name of Property Owner: 
 
 
Address of Subject Property: 
 
 
Phone No. of Property Owner 
 
Description of the proposed tree removal, 
including the types of trees to be removed and 
number of trees to be removed 
 
Location of proposed tree removal 
 
Purpose of the proposed tree removal 
 
Date of application submission 
 
 
 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE that a Tree Removal Permit Application for the removal of three (3) or more trees 
has been submitted to the Environmental Coordinator pursuant to Section 121-5 of the Code of the Town of 
New Castle by the Property Owner listed above. Please note that the Tree Removal Permit Application is 
not subject to a public hearing, this notice is only a professional courtesy to inform you of the proposed tree 
removals. You are receiving this notice because your property is located within 100 feet of the boundaries of 
the property on which the proposed tree removal will be conducted. All information related to this tree 
removal permit application is maintained in file in the office of the Town Building and Engineering 
Department. All applications for tree removal permits, shall be approved, approved with conditions, denied 
or returned to the applicant within twenty-one (21) business days of the receipt if the application. Any party 
aggrieved or affected by the determination of the Town’s Environmental Coordinator, with respect to a tree 
removal permit may, within 10 business days of such determination, appeal to the Environmental Review 
Board. The appeal application must set forth the reasons for such appeal. 
 
 
Should you have any additional questions or concerns regarding the tree removal described herein or the 
status of the Tree Removal Permit, please contact the Environmental Coordinator at (914) 238-7278. 
 
Date mailed:   
 
 
 
 
 
This form shall be sent to each homeowner via certified mail, return receipt requested. 
The Building Department will provide a list of homeowners within 100 feet upon request. 
A copy of this notice will be filed with the Environmental Coordinator. 

ATTACHMENT B 
 
 
 
AFFIDAVIT OF MAILING 
 
I certify that I have sent Attachment A, Notice of Intent to Remove Trees (the “Notice”) to the 
homeowners listed below. Attached are return receipts from said mailing and a copy of each notice. 
 
 
 
 
NAME ADDRESS 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
(If more space is required, please attach a separate page) 
 
 
 
 
Date:   Signed:   
 
Phone #: