Village of Briarcliff Manor, NY

2025-01-07


Part I Administrative Legislation

Chapter 18 Conservation Advisory Council






Chapter 18

Conservation Advisory Council 

[HISTORY: Adopted by the Board of Trustees of the Village of Briarcliff
Manor 7-6-1972 by L.L. No. 1-1972. Amendments noted where applicable.]

§ 18-1

Legislative intent. 

§ 18-2

Establishment of Council. 

§ 18-3

Membership. 

§ 18-4

Officers, meetings and procedure. 

§ 18-5

Powers and duties of Council. 

§ 18-6

Reports. 

§ 18-7

Compensation and expenses. 

§ 18-8

Construal of provisions. 

§ 18-1

Legislative intent. 

The preservation and improvement of the quality of the natural and man-made
environment within the Village of Briarcliff Manor, in the face of population
growth, urbanization and technologic change with their accompanying demands
on natural resources, are found to be of increasing and vital importance to
the health, welfare and economic well-being of present and future inhabitants
and require forthright action by the governing body of the Village of Briarcliff
Manor. It is recognized that the biologic integrity of the natural environment
on which man is dependent for survival and the natural and functional beauty
of our surroundings which condition the quality of our life experience cannot
be protected without the full cooperation and participation of all of the
residents of the Village of Briarcliff Manor working in conjunction with local
and state officials and with various public and private institutions, agencies
and organizations. Establishment of an advisory council for conservation of
the environment is a necessary step in fostering unified action on environmental
problems.

§ 18-2

Establishment of Council. 

The Board of Trustees of the Village of Briarcliff Manor hereby creates
an advisory council which shall be known as the "Briarcliff Manor Conservation
Advisory Council," hereinafter referred to as the "Council."

§ 18-3

Membership. 

[Amended 6-1-1995 by L.L.
No. 3-1995]
The Council shall consist of 11 members to be appointed by the Board
of Trustees:

A. At Village Annual Organization meetings, six members
shall be appointed for terms of two years in the first year and five members
appointed for terms of two years in the following year, with successors appointed
in the alternate years in the same allocation.

B. Not more than two persons may be appointed to the Council
who are between the ages of 16 and 21 who are interested in the improvement
and preservation of environmental quality.

C. Vacancies on the Council, occurring other than by the
expiration of term of office, shall be filled by appointment of the Board
of Trustees for the remainder of the unexpired terms of office.[1]
[1]
Editor's Note: Amended at time of adoption of Code (see Ch. 1, General Provisions, Art. I).

D. The Board of Trustees may designate by resolution such
other Village officials as it deems appropriate as ex-officio members of the
Council.

§ 18-4

Officers, meetings and procedure. 

The Board of Trustees shall designate a member of the Council to act as Chairman thereof. At the first meeting of the Council, its members shall elect from among themselves a recording secretary. The Council shall adopt rules and procedures for its meetings. It shall keep accurate records of its meetings and activities, and it shall file an annual report as hereinafter provided in § 18-6 of this chapter.

§ 18-5

Powers and duties of Council. 

The powers and duties of the Council shall be to:

A. Advise the Board of Trustees on matters affecting the
preservation, development and use of the natural and man-made features and
conditions of the Village of Briarcliff Manor insofar as beauty, quality,
biologic integrity and other environmental factors are concerned and, in the
case of man's activities and developments, with regard to any major threats
posed to environmental quality, so as to enhance the long range value of the
environment to the people of the Village of Briarcliff Manor.

B. Develop and, after receiving approval by resolution of
the Board of Trustees, conduct a program of public information in the Village
which shall be designed to foster increased understanding of the nature of
environmental problems and issues and support for their solutions.

C. When authorized by resolution of the Board of Trustees,
conduct studies, surveys and inventories of the natural and man-made features
within the Village of Briarcliff Manor and such other studies and surveys
as may be necessary to carry out the general purposes of this chapter.

D. Maintain an up-to-date inventory or index of all open
spaces in public or private ownership within the Village, including but not
limited to natural landmarks, glacial and other geomorphic or physiographic
features; streams and their floodplains; swamps, marshlands and other wetlands;
unique biotic communities; scenic and other open areas of natural or ecological
value; and of the ownership, present use and proposed use of such open areas,
so as to provide a base of information for recommendations by the Council
for their preservation and/or use.

E. Seek to coordinate, assist and unify the efforts of private
groups, institutions and individuals within the Village of Briarcliff Manor
in accord with the purposes of this chapter.

F. Maintain liaison and communications with public and private
agencies and organizations of local, state and national scope whose programs
and activities have an impact on the quality of the environment or which can
be of assistance to the Council.

G. Working in conjunction with the Planning Board, recommend
from time to time to the Board of Trustees features, plans and programs relating
to environmental improvement for inclusion in the Master Plan of the Village
of Briarcliff Manor, and recommend to the Board of Trustees appropriate and
desirable changes in existing local laws and ordinances relating to environmental
control or recommend new local laws and ordinances.

H. When authorized by resolution of the Board of Trustees,
prepare, print and distribute books, maps, charts and pamphlets in accord
with the purposes of this chapter.

I. Obtain and maintain in orderly fashion maps, reports,
books and other publications to support the necessary researches of the Council
into local environmental conditions.

J. When authorized by resolution of the Board of Trustees,
accept by gift, grant, devise, bequest or otherwise, real or personal property,
in the name of the Village of Briarcliff Manor, as may be necessary or desirable
to conserve and otherwise properly utilize open spaces and other land and
water resources within the boundaries of the Village of Briarcliff Manor.
Such real property may be accepted in fee for land or water rights, or as
any lesser interest, development right, easement (including conservation easement)
covenant or other contractual right including conveyance with limitations
or reversions.

K. Carry out such other duties as may be assigned from time
to time by the Board of Trustees.

§ 18-6

Reports. 

The Council shall submit an annual written report to the Board of Trustees
not later than the first day of April of each year concerning the activities
and work of the Council for the past year, and in addition, from time to time,
shall submit such reports and recommendation as may be necessary to fulfill
the purposes of this chapter.

§ 18-7

Compensation and expenses. 

The members of the Council, including ex officio members, shall receive
no compensation for their services as members thereof, but may be reimbursed
for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties within the appropriations made available therefor by the Board of Trustees
in its annual budget.

§ 18-8

Construal of provisions. 

This chapter shall be deemed an exercise of the powers of the Village
of Briarcliff Manor to preserve and improve the quality of the natural and
man-made environment on behalf of the present and future inhabitants thereof.
This chapter is not intended and shall not be deemed to impair the powers
of any other public corporation.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.