

=== Article I ===

Village of Scarsdale, NY


info

Part II General Legislation

Chapter 281 Trees, Grass, Brush and Weeds

Article I Trees





Get Updates

Article I

Trees 

§ 281-1

Legislative findings and intent. 

§ 281-2

Definitions. 

§ 281-3

Activities permitted as of right on nonpublic property. 

§ 281-4

Tree removal permit. 

§ 281-5

Replacement trees. 

§ 281-6

Protected trees. 

§ 281-7

Heritage trees. 

§ 281-8

Tree expert. 

§ 281-9

Restoration and replacement. 

§ 281-10

Certificate of occupancy. 

§ 281-11

Enforcement; penalties for offenses. 

§ 281-1

Legislative findings and intent. 

The Village of Scarsdale finds that trees within the Village
provide an important contribution to the health, safety, aesthetics
and general welfare of Scarsdale residents and the community at large.
Trees provide shade and aesthetic appeal, enhance green space, improve
air quality, reduce energy use and atmospheric carbon dioxide, provide
and promote habitat for wildlife, impede soil erosion, aid water absorption,
inhibit excess runoff and flooding, provide screening, offer a natural
barrier to noise, provide other environmental benefits and generally
enhance the quality of life within the Village. These social, economic,
and ecological benefits often increase as trees mature and the Village
community's investment in trees has accrued over many years. This
investment can be rapidly lost and is not easily nor quickly replaced
due to the long length of time for a tree to mature. The destruction
of and damage to trees and the indiscriminate and excessive cutting
of trees can create barren and unsightly conditions, as well as surface
drainage problems, increase municipal costs to control drainage, impair
the value of real property and adversely affect the environment, health
and character of the community. This article seeks to address these
conditions and promote the preservation of trees within the Village.

§ 281-2

Definitions. 

Terms as used in this chapter shall have the
meanings:

DBH
The diameter of a tree trunk measured at 54 inches above
the ground on the uphill side.

DISEASED TREE
A tree not capable of being cured by a tree expert and capable
of infestation of the disease to other trees and plant life.

DISTRIBUTION LINE
An electric line having a voltage of less than 69 kilovolts.

EMERGENCY
A serious situation or occurrence that happens unexpectedly
and demands immediate action

ENTITY
Any corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
limited partnership or other nonmunicipal enterprise recognized by
the State of New York or its agents and contractors.

HAZARDOUS TREE
Any tree which meets two criteria: (1) a defect which will
likely result in a failure, as determined in accordance with the ISA
(International Society of Arboriculture) Risk Assessment Manual, and
(2) the existence of a target, including structures, objects, power
lines, or people that would suffer personal injury or property damage
if said tree failed.[Added 2-13-2019 by L.L.
No. 2-2019]

HERITAGE TREE
A tree designated by the Village with the consent of the owner upon a finding that the tree is unique and/or of importance to the community as set forth in § 281-7.

INJURY TO TREES
Any action, during the course of permitted or nonpermitted
work, that causes significant damage to a tree that causes or is likely
to cause death of the tree.

INVASIVE SPECIES
A nonnative species that adversely affects the habitats it
invades economically, environmentally or ecologically and is listed
in the Prohibited and Regulated Invasive Species Plant list of the
New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and the New
York State Department of Agriculture and Markets, as amended from
time to time.[Amended 2-13-2019 by L.L. No. 2-2019]

LANDSCAPE ARCHITECT
A person who holds a license to practice landscape architecture.

LANDSCAPE PLAN
A design for the exterior landscape of a property that includes
the common and botanical names, DBH, condition and location of trees,
shrubs and other natural elements and may include grading, tree removal
and tree preservation measures which is reviewed and approved by a
land use board.[Amended 2-13-2019 by L.L. No. 2-2019]

LAND USE BOARDS
Independent bodies that make decisions in regard to land
use in the Village under the enabling authority given by the State
of New York, county and/or local law. These include the Board of Architectural
Review (BAR), the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) and the Planning Board.

NONPUBLIC PROPERTY
Any lands not owned by the Village of Scarsdale or any other
governmental entity.

PERSON
Any corporation, firm, partnership, association, trust, estate
and one or more individuals.[Added 2-13-2019 by L.L.
No. 2-2019]

PROTECTED TREE
A tree designated as protected in accordance with the Protected
Tree List maintained by the Village, which shall include but is not
limited to those trees listed in the Endangered Protected Native Plants
list of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation,
as amended from time to time, and heritage trees. The Protected Tree
List shall be maintained by the Engineering Department.

PUBLIC PROPERTY
Lands owned by the Village of Scarsdale, which includes rights-of-way
(ROW), parks, open space and Village facilities.

PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or ROW
The surface and space above, on, and below any public highway,
avenue, street, lane, alley, boulevard, concourse, driveway, bridge,
tunnel, park, parkway, waterway, dock, bulkhead, wharf, pier, public
easement, right-of-way or any other public ground or water within
or in which the Village now or hereafter holds any property interest.[Added 6-28-2022 by L.L.
No. 6-2022]

REPLACEMENT TREE
Any tree planted under the provisions of this chapter or
required by a decision of a land use board. Replacement trees must
be native to the Northeast United States, excluding invasive species,
and at least three inches DBH at the time of planting, unless specifically
approved as part of a tree replacement plan.[1]

TREE
Any woody plant of a species which grows at maturity to an
overall height of 10 feet or more, has a single trunk or multiple
trunks which are, in combination, a sum of six inches DBH.

TREE EXPERT
An ISA-certified arborist or other professional certified
by a recognized program of higher education or governmental agency
as a tree expert.

TREE PRESERVATION FUND
A fund established by the Village of Scarsdale to receive
payments pursuant to this chapter, as well as voluntary donations
to be used in accordance with this chapter or to augment the planting
of public trees.

TREE REMOVAL PERMIT
A permit issued by the Village Engineer in conformance with
an application submitted by an applicant and approved by the Village
Engineer.

VILLAGE ENGINEER
A person employed by the Village of Scarsdale, certified
and licensed by the State of New York as a professional engineer or
licensed architect, or his or her designee, with responsibilities
that include reviewing plans for various projects on public and private
land within the jurisdiction of the Village of Scarsdale.

[1]
Editor's Note: The former definition of "right-of-way (ROW),"
which immediately followed this definition, was repealed 6-28-2022 by L.L. No. 6-2022. See now "public right-of-way or ROW."

§ 281-3

Activities permitted as of right on nonpublic property. 

[Amended 2-13-2019 by L.L. No. 2-2019]

A property owner may remove a tree(s) on nonpublic property as of right, provided that tree removal is not regulated by the provisions of Chapter 171, Freshwater Wetlands, as well as the following:

A. The tree(s) to be removed are six inches DBH or less, except the
following small caliper native trees may only be removed, without
a permit, if they are three inches DBH or less:

(1) Hawthorn, Crataegus species and its cultivars or hybrids;

(2) Crabapple, Malus species and its cultivars or hybrids;

(3) Redbud, Cercis species and its cultivars or hybrids;

(4) Mountain Ash, Sorbus Americana species and its cultivars or hybrids;

(5) Amelanchier (Serviceberry), species and its cultivars or hybrids,
A. arborea and A. laevis species and its cultivars and hybrids;

(6) Birch, Betula species and its cultivars or hybrids.

B. The tree is removed under an actual or ongoing emergency when such
tree removal is necessary for the protection and preservation of life
or property, including adjoining parcels. The property owner shall
give notice of said removal to the Village Engineer as soon as practical.

C. The tree is an invasive species as defined herein.

D. Two trees on each property greater than six inches DBH and less than
24 inches DBH may be removed within a twelve-month period. Prior to
removal, a written notification of removal shall be delivered to the
Village Engineer.

§ 281-4

Tree removal permit. 

A. The following tree removal activity requires a tree
removal permit under this article:[Amended 2-13-2019 by L.L. No. 2-2019]

(1) Except for those trees removed pursuant to § 281-3D, the removal of one or more trees greater than six inches DBH.

(2) The removal of one or more small caliper native trees as identified under § 281-3A.

(3) Trees identified to be removed or protected as a result
of a land use board determination.

(4) Removal of replacement tree(s) six inches or less DBH that are planted as a result of a land use board determination or pursuant to § 281-11.

(5) Removal of tree(s) determined to be preserved by a
land use board for at least two growing seasons after the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy or land use board approval.

(6) Removal of one or more trees greater than six inches DBH that are dead, dying, diseased, or hazardous as determined by a tree expert. These tree removals shall not be subject to a fee or the replacement requirements under § 281-5.

(7) Tree removals governed by Chapter 171 of this Code titled "Freshwater Wetlands."

B. In making a determination to grant or grant with conditions
a permit under this article for the removal of any tree, the Village
Engineer's consideration shall include, but is not limited to, the
following:

(1) Whether the location of the tree endangers the health,
safety or welfare of the general public, the property owner or an
adjoining property owner.

(2) Whether the tree interferes with a permitted use of
the property and/or is specifically identified for removal in a wetland
permit, special use permit, subdivision plan, site plan or Board of
Architectural Review approved landscape plan.

(3) Whether the location of the tree interferes with a
proposed permitted construction or alteration on the property and
the construction or alteration cannot be reasonably adjusted to accommodate
such tree.

(4) Whether the location of the tree prevents compliance
with state, county or local laws or regulations for visual obstructions,
sight lines, driveways or intersections.

(5) Whether the tree, due to advanced age, disease, blight,
infestation, storm damage, accident or other condition, causes undue
hardship for the property owner to maintain such tree.

(6) Whether the tree is located within three feet of an
existing sidewalk, driveway or private roadway or if the tree is located
within 10 feet of any existing dry well or other subsurface improvement
or within 10 feet of any existing permanent structure or improvement.

(7) The number of trees for which a tree removal permit
is being sought.

(8) The number of trees, if any, removed from the property during the preceding 36 months (other than trees removed pursuant to § 281-3A, B or C).[Amended 2-13-2019 by L.L. No. 2-2019]

(9) Whether the granting of a tree removal permit complies with the restrictions set forth in Chapter 171 of this Code titled "Freshwater Wetlands."[Added 2-13-2019 by L.L.
No. 2-2019]

C. The determination of the Village Engineer denying the grant of a permit application shall be in writing and set forth the basis for such decision, as prescribed in § 281-4E(6), which decision may be appealed to the Planning Board.

D. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter,
any property owner, developer or person who has applied for and received
a permit involving an approved subdivision, approved site plan, wetland
permit, special permit, or any permit that requires the removal of
tree(s) on any nonpublic property shall, in addition to strict compliance
with any terms of such approved subdivision, approved site plan, wetland
permit, special permits, or any permit that requires the removal of
tree(s), make an application to the Village Engineer for a tree removal
permit. There shall be no site disturbance, and the status quo shall
be maintained until such time as a tree removal permit is granted
or denied and the appeal process is completed. The Village Engineer
may grant, grant with conditions, or deny such application for a tree
removal permit on such terms and conditions as he or she may prescribe,
it being understood that there must be full compliance with any approved
subdivision, approved site plan, wetland permit, special permit or
other development approval required by the land use boards. In no
event shall a tree removal permit be issued for the removal of any
tree specifically designated to be saved by the Planning Board, Board
of Appeals or Board of Architectural Review, unless said tree is determined
to be dead, dying, diseased or hazardous to life or property or as
subsequently approved by a land use board.

E. Applications.

(1) All applications for permits shall be made in writing
upon forms prescribed by the Village Engineer.

(2) The Village Engineer may require the applicant to submit plans showing
existing and proposed contours at two-foot intervals on a map or plan
at a scale no smaller than one inch equals 40 feet; existing trees,
specifying the common and botanical names, DBH and condition of the
trees to be removed and the reasons for removing said trees. The plans
must detail all replacement trees and specify the planting location,
common and botanical names, DBH and condition for all replacement
trees.[Amended 2-13-2019 by L.L. No. 2-2019]

(3) The Village Engineer may require additional information
in plans that include the design for all tree protection measures,
including but not limited to protective fencing, tree wells and any
other appurtenance that is deemed to be pertinent in reviewing an
application.

(4) The Village Engineer may require the applicant to pay for the retention,
by the Village, of a tree expert, as defined herein, to supervise
and ensure that any tree removal is carried out in compliance with
any permit of approved land use plan.

(5) An applicant may be required to furnish the Village
with a performance bond or a cash deposit in an amount determined
by the Village Engineer in a form to be approved by the Village Attorney
sufficient to cover 100% of the planting and restoration work to be
completed after the removal of any tree pursuant to plans that are
required to accompany all applications. Cash shall be deposited in
a trust account as established by the Village Treasurer. The performance
bond or cash deposit shall remain in effect for a period of two growing
seasons after the issuance of a certificate of occupancy (CO), or
where a CO is not required after final inspection and approval by
the Village Engineer.

(6) The Village Engineer, within 30 days from the date
an application is submitted in final form, shall issue a permit or
deny the application, unless the parties agree to extend the time
for the Village Engineer to render a determination.

(7) The Village Engineer may issue a stop-work order against
any approved tree removal permit if the work performed is not proceeding
in accordance with the requirements of the permit or in an orderly
and diligent manner.

(8) An application fee shall be set by resolution of the
Village Board in an amount that would cover Village costs for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. The Village Manager,
as appropriate, shall recommend to the Village Board fees under this
chapter.

(9) The Village Engineer shall maintain a written record of all tree
removal permits.

§ 281-5

Replacement trees. 

[Amended 2-13-2019 by L.L. No. 2-2019]

A. The following trees removed pursuant to § 281-4, excluding § 281-3D and § 281-4A(6), shall be replaced with a replacement tree, when applicable for trees removed from the same property, whether by single or multiple tree removal permits, within any consecutive three-year period, regardless of ownership.

(1) A tree removed that is 24 inches DBH or greater.

(2) Permitted trees removed having an aggregate DBH of 48 inches or greater.

(a) 
A replacement tree of a genus and species expected to grow to maturity at a similar size to the removed tree or trees shall be planted for every 24 inches of DBH removed up to 120 inches of aggregate DBH, excluding the aggregate DBH of any tree(s) removed pursuant to § 281-5A(1).

(b) 
Two replacement trees of genus and species expected to grow to maturity at a similar size to the removed tree or trees shall be planted for every 24 inches of DBH removed above 120 inches of aggregate DBH and less than 240 inches aggregate DBH, excluding the aggregate DBH of any tree(s) removed pursuant to § 281-5A(1).

Three replacement trees of a genus and species expected to grow to maturity at a similar size to the removal tree or trees shall be planted for every 24 inches of DBH removed above 240 inches aggregate DBH, excluding the aggregate DBH of any tree(s) removed pursuant to § 281-5A(1).

B. The Village Engineer, as a condition to the granting of any tree
removal permit, shall have the authority to require replacement trees
of comparable size or species to be planted. Where existing trees
are so large and mature that it is not practical to replace such trees
of comparable size or where extensive tree removal is planned as part
of a tree removal permit, the Village Engineer may order the planting
of multiple trees and/or payment to the Tree Preservation Fund in
an amount that would reimburse the Village for the cost of purchasing
planting and maintaining any such replacement tree(s), the amount
of which shall be determined by the Village Board in its annual fees
and charges schedule. Where existing conditions on a lot make the
planting of required replacement trees not feasible the applicant
shall be required to make a payment to the Tree Preservation Fund
in accordance with the annual fees and charges schedule. The applicant
may appeal the Village Engineer's determination pursuant to this subsection
to the Planning Board, which shall hear, review and determine said
appeal.

§ 281-6

Protected trees. 

Protected trees may not be removed unless the tree is dead, dying, hazardous or diseased, as determined by a tree expert and certified in writing. Notwithstanding this provision, where a protected tree, excluding protected trees located within any of the required setback areas, is determined by the Village Engineer to create a hardship, it may be removed subject to the requirements of § 281-4 and the provisions of § 281-5.

§ 281-7

Heritage trees. 

A. Upon the written request and consent by any property
owner, the Board of Architectural Review may designate a tree as a
"heritage tree."

B. A tree may be designated as a heritage tree upon a
finding that it is unique and of importance to the community. The
following factors may be considered by the Board of Architectural
Review when considering designating a heritage tree:

(1) It is an outstanding specimen of a desirable species.

(2) It is one of the largest or oldest trees in Scarsdale.

(3) It possesses distinctive form, size, age, location,
and/or historical significance.

C. After Board of Architectural Review approval of a
heritage tree designation, the Village Engineer shall notify the property
owner(s) in writing. A listing of trees so designated, including the
specific locations thereof, shall be kept by the building department.

D. Once designated, a heritage tree shall be subject to the provisions
of this article unless removed from the list of heritage trees by
action of the Board of Architectural Review. At its discretion the
Board of Architectural Review may remove a tree from the list upon
written request by the property owner.

§ 281-8

Tree expert. 

The Village may employ or retain a tree expert
to advise the Village in regard to the planting, growing, pruning,
removal or preservation of any tree on public and nonpublic property.

§ 281-9

Restoration and replacement. 

A. All persons who remove trees or cause trees to be
removed with or without a tree removal permit shall restore the area
by backfilling all holes and by creating an acceptable grade and covering.
Any tree damaged for any reason during construction or development
of a property, or removed in violation of an approved subdivision
plan, site plan, special permit, wetland permit or landscape plan,
shall forfeit all or a portion of any escrow deposit or bond in an
amount determined by the Village Engineer. Minor tree damage shall
be treated in accordance with accepted tree surgery and best practices.

B. Tree stumps shall be removed except where trees are removed pursuant to § 281-3 or the Village Engineer determines that the stumps are to be left for aesthetic purposes, to prevent soil erosion, or for other reasons. After the replacement of any tree, removal of all debris in the disturbed area shall be made immediately. The property where such planting is done must be left in a neat and orderly condition in accordance with good and acceptable planting and tree surgery practice.

C. All tree planting, tree dressing and associated restoration
work must be substantially completed within one year from the date
of issuance of any tree removal permit not associated with a building
permit, except that the tree removal permit may be extended by the
Village Engineer for a period not to exceed six months. Under all
circumstances the performance bond or cash escrow held by the Village
shall continue in full force and effect until there has been full
compliance and approval by the Village Engineer of all restoration
work. In the event that the planting and restoration work is not substantially
completed within one year of the date of issuance of a permit, and
no extension has been granted, the Village Engineer shall consider
the work and permit to be abandoned and declare the performance bond
and/or the escrow deposit in default, and the proceeds from the bond
and/or cash deposit shall be transferred to the Tree Preservation
Fund.

D. All trees planted pursuant to this article which fail
to survive two growing seasons shall be replaced by the permit holder
at the expense of the permit holder. Said replacement shall be within
the longer of 60 days following written notice from the Village Engineer
or the period of time as may be specified in such notice. Should the
permit holder fail to timely replace the trees, the Village Engineer
shall serve a court appearance ticket and/or declare the bond and/or
escrow deposit in default and apply the proceeds to the Tree Preservation
Fund.

§ 281-10

Certificate of occupancy. 

[Amended 2-13-2019 by L.L. No. 2-2019]

A final certificate of occupancy shall be issued
by the Building Inspector only after all tree planting, tree dressing
and associated restoration is completed to the satisfaction of the
Village Engineer, except that between October 31 and April 1, the
permit holder may obtain a temporary certificate of occupancy. In
the case where a temporary certificate of occupancy is issued, all
planting and restoration work in this instance must be completed to
the satisfaction of the Village Engineer on or before the first day
of the following May. The escrow cash deposit and performance bond
shall continue in full force and effect until the planting and restoration
work has been completed and the planting has survived two full growing
seasons. Should the permit holder fail to complete the restoration
work on or before May 1, the Village Engineer shall declare said performance
bond or escrow in default and apply the proceeds from the bond or
escrow to the Tree Preservation Fund.

§ 281-11

Enforcement; penalties for offenses. 

A. The terms of this chapter shall be enforced by the
Village Engineer and the Building Department, except where such enforcement
may be vested in the laws of the State of New York.

B. Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a violation and shall be fined not less than $250 or more than $1,000 for the first two trees. Thereafter, not less than $500 or more than $2,500 for each additional tree. In cases where a person is found guilty of knowingly violating a provision of this article, or of removing an excessive number of trees without a permit, the Village Justice shall have the discretion to set a fine in excess of these limits. No building, demolition, or excavation permit may be issued, and if previously issued shall be revoked, until such violation is cured in accordance with § 281-9 herein.[Amended 2-13-2019 by L.L. No. 2-2019]

C. In addition thereto, any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall replace each tree injured, removed, killed or destroyed in accordance with the provisions of § 281-5.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.



=== Article II ===

Village of Scarsdale, NY


info

Part II General Legislation

Chapter 281 Trees, Grass, Brush and Weeds

Article II Distribution Lines





Get Updates

Article II

Distribution Lines 

§ 281-12

Distribution lines, rights-of-way. 

§ 281-13

Enforcement penalties: utilities and ROWs. 

§ 281-12

Distribution lines, rights-of-way. 

A. Legislative findings and intent. The Village of Scarsdale wishes
to promote the reliable delivery by public utilities of electric power
to residents and businesses within the Village. The Village recognizes
that tree limbs may interrupt such reliable delivery if they become
entangled with electric lines and therefore public utilities must,
from time to time, cut and/or remove trees. The Village also wishes
to recognize and preserve the benefits of trees to the community,
including, without limitation, shade and aesthetic appeal, enhancing
green space, improving air quality, reducing energy use and atmospheric
carbon dioxide, providing and promoting habitat for wildlife, impeding
soil erosion, aiding water absorption, inhibiting excess runoff and
flooding, providing screening, offering a natural barrier to noise,
providing other environmental benefits and generally enhancing the
quality of life within the Village. Removal of trees, if not regulated
locally, would be deleterious to the environment and adversely impact
all property in the Village.

B. Any tree work in the Village right-of-way by a public
utility, or its agent, including trimming and/or removal of trees
must comply with nationally recognized standards and, further, that
when tree removal is necessary, reasonable efforts are to be made
to mitigate the loss of trees and any resulting threat by such removal
by replanting, or such other actions that are necessary to protect
the public health, safety, environment and general welfare.

C. Utilities or their agents responsible for maintaining ROWs in the Village shall follow the tree maintenance practices for utilities established by the National Arbor Day Foundation, as amended from time to time, unless otherwise authorized in writing by a tree expert under such terms and conditions as may be specified. Nothing in this article prevents a public utility from contracting with a private entity to perform tree maintenance, as long as such tree maintenance conforms to the standards established by the National Arbor Day Foundation and provisions of this Article II.

D. Except for tree pruning and trimming permitted by Subsection B above, no utility or its agents or contractors shall cut, top or remove a tree on a Village ROW, unless such tree poses a danger to a distribution line. A certification by a tree expert that such tree(s) are diseased or dying or, with respect to a healthy tree, such tree is so entangled with a distribution line that pruning and maintenance practices cannot reasonably be expected to prevent such tree from falling on or otherwise interfering with the distribution line is to be filed with the Village Engineer before any work takes place. Notwithstanding any provisions of this Article II, an entity may trim, top or remove a tree on a ROW if it has fallen on a distribution line or, in the judgment of the utility, is in imminent danger of doing so.

E. Except for tree pruning and trimming maintenance practices permitted by this Article II, any public utility or other entity removing a tree on a ROW or trimming to such a degree that would constitute removal, including if done on an emergency basis, shall replant a replacement tree, as defined herein, for each such tree removed and take such action as shall be determined by the utility's consulting tree expert so that no adverse environmental effects, including, but not limited to, drainage and soil erosion, impact the Village or adjacent property owners.

§ 281-13

Enforcement penalties: utilities and ROWs. 

A. The Village Engineer may issue such regulations and forms as it deems appropriate for the administration of this Article II and may issue stop-work orders for violations.

B. If any provision of this article is violated by any utility or its agent, the Village may, in any court of competent jurisdiction, seek injunctive relief restraining any violation of this article and/or compel the restoration described under the violation. Any violation of this article shall be punishable by a fine in the amounts set forth in § 281-11.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.



=== Article III ===

Village of Scarsdale, NY


info

Part II General Legislation

Chapter 281 Trees, Grass, Brush and Weeds

Article III Infestations, Poisonous, Harmful Weeds and Plants





Get Updates

Article III

Infestations, Poisonous, Harmful Weeds and Plants 

§ 281-14

Unlawful to allow infestations. 

§ 281-15

Duty of owners to correct. 

§ 281-16

Action by Village. 

§ 281-17

Penalties for offenses. 

§ 281-14

Unlawful to allow infestations. 

A. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any land in the Village to
maintain or permit to remain thereon harmful flora or fauna which
is likely to cause destruction of or damage to trees or shrubs or
create a potential hazard or a public nuisance, including prohibited
species listed on the Prohibited and Regulated Invasive Species plant
lists of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation.

B. It shall also be unlawful for the owner of any land
in the Village to maintain or permit to remain thereon any poisonous
or harmful weed or plant that is likely to spread to other properties
or become a public nuisance.

§ 281-15

Duty of owners to correct. 

It shall be the duty of the owner of any land in the Village containing harmful flora, fauna or poisonous or harmful weed or plant which violates § 281-14 to destroy or cause to be destroyed such harmful flora or fauna or poisonous or harmful weed or plant.

§ 281-16

Action by Village. 

In case any owner of land in the Village fails
to comply with the provisions of this article, the Village Engineer
shall issue a notice of correction by regular mail or in person, directing
such owner(s) to comply with the provisions of this article.

§ 281-17

Penalties for offenses. 

Any person committing an offense against any provision of this Article III shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a violation pursuant to the Penal Law of the State of New York, punishable by a fine not exceeding $250. The continuation of an offense against the provisions of this article shall constitute, for each day the offense is continued, a separate and distinct offense hereunder.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.



=== Article IV ===

Village of Scarsdale, NY


info

Part II General Legislation

Chapter 281 Trees, Grass, Brush and Weeds

Article IV Planting and Protection of Trees, Shrubs and Plants in Public Places





Get Updates

Article IV

Planting and Protection of Trees, Shrubs and Plants in Public Places 

§ 281-18

Planting in public places. 

§ 281-19

Removal, cutting and trimming in public places. 

§ 281-20

Interference in public places. 

§ 281-21

Fastening animals and signs in public places. 

§ 281-22

Obstructing nutrients to roots in public places. 

§ 281-23

Deleterious substances about roots in public places. 

§ 281-24

Penalties for offenses. 

§ 281-18

Planting in public places. 

No person shall plant any tree, shrub or plant that may create a traffic hazard or other visual obstruction, pursuant to Chapter 294 of this Code,[1] within limits of any public ROW, park or other public
place, without first securing a written permit from the Village Engineer
or license agreement from the Village and complying with the following
conditions and requirements: the permit or license shall be granted
only upon a determination by the Village Engineer after consulting
with the Director of Public Works that such planting does not interfere
with the use of such public ROW, park or other public place and that
such planting will enhance the beauty and appearance of the public
ROW, park or other public place and the surrounding area.

A. Trees planted within the limits of any public ROW,
park or other public place shall be of a quality and species approved
by the Village Engineer and shall be planted at least 30 feet apart
unless otherwise authorized by the Village Engineer. Each such tree
shall measure not less than three inches DBH.

B. Should any tree, shrub or plant planted within the
limits of any public ROW, park or other public place pursuant to any
such permit, in the opinion of the Village Engineer, interfere at
any time with the use of such public ROW, park or other public place
by the public or detract from the beauty and appearance of the public
ROW, park or other public place or the surrounding area, the Village
Engineer shall mail a notice in writing to the permittee or his or
her successor in ownership of the abutting premises to remove such
tree, shrub or plant and to restore such public ROW, park or other
public place to its original condition within 15 days of the mailing
of the notice. If such permittee or owner shall fail to comply with
such notice, the Village Engineer may cause the tree, shrub or plant
to be removed, and the public ROW, park or other public place to be
restored to its original condition at the expense of such permittee
or owner. Any cost incurred by the Village in the performance of such
work involving the removal of any such tree, plant or shrub in any
public ROW, park or other public place shall be paid by such permittee
or owner, upon notice from the Village of Scarsdale, in full within
30 days of the date of such notice. In the event of nonpayment by
the owner of the property or building, such costs will be assessed
as a lien on the property.

C. Any tree, shrub or plant planted within the limits
of any public ROW, park or other public place pursuant to such a permit
or license agreement shall be maintained by the owner of the abutting
premises, and the Village shall not be responsible for any damage
caused to or by such tree, shrub or plant.

[1]
Editor's Note: See Ch. 294, Visual Obstructions.

§ 281-19

Removal, cutting and trimming in public places. 

No person shall remove, kill, cut, break or
trim any tree or shrub in any public ROW, park or other public place
in the Village or remove any device set for the protection of any
such tree or shrub, without first securing a written permit from the
Village Engineer and complying with such specifications as the Village
Engineer may prescribe.

§ 281-20

Interference in public places. 

No person shall, without first securing a written
permit from the Village Engineer, cause any wire or insulator or any
device for the holding of any electric wire to be attached to any
tree in any public ROW, park or other public place or cause any wire
or other conductor charged with electricity to come in contact with
any such tree or place or maintain any pole or post in such a manner
as to interfere with any tree or shrub in any public ROW, park or
other public place.

§ 281-21

Fastening animals and signs in public places. 

No person shall fasten or tie any animal to
or attach any sign, bill, card, notice or advertisement to any tree
or shrub in any public ROW, park or other public place or allow any
animal under his or her control to injure any such tree or shrub.

§ 281-22

Obstructing nutrients to roots in public places. 

No person shall place or maintain on the ground
in any public ROW, park or other public place any stone, excess soil
or other substance in such manner as may obstruct the free access
of air or water to the roots of any tree therein without first securing
a written permit from the Village Engineer.

§ 281-23

Deleterious substances about roots in public places. 

No person shall cause any brine, oil, gas, gasoline,
liquid dye or other substance deleterious to tree life to pass onto
or into the soil about the roots of any tree in any public ROW, park
or other public place.

§ 281-24

Penalties for offenses. 

Any person or entity violating any of the provisions of this Article IV shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a violation pursuant to the Penal Law of the State of New York, punishable by a fine in amounts set forth in § 281-11 with respect to trees and as provided in § 281-17 for all other vegetation.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.



=== Article V ===

Village of Scarsdale, NY


info

Part II General Legislation

Chapter 281 Trees, Grass, Brush and Weeds

Article V Land Use Boards





Get Updates

Article V

Land Use Boards 

§ 281-25

When inventory, plans and bond agreements required. 

§ 281-25

When inventory, plans and bond agreements required. 

A. Applications for subdivision or site plan approval
or for activities in a freshwater wetland controlled area before the
Planning Board; for special permits for tennis courts, swimming pools
and other buildings before the Board of Appeals; and for permit approval
before the Board of Architectural Review shall be accompanied by:[Amended 2-13-2019 by L.L. No. 2-2019]

(1) A tree inventory plan, prepared by a tree expert or licensed landscape architect of all trees on the property having a DBH of four inches or more and trees having a DBH of three inches or less which are enumerated in § 281-3A, identifying all trees by common and botanical names, DBH and condition. The Planning Board may defer the inventory requirement in lot merger and subdivision applications for which no development is proposed.

(2) A tree preservation plan showing trees which are to be preserved
identified by common and botanical name, DBH and condition. Methods
for tree preservation in areas affected by construction activities
shall meet standards set by Westchester County Best Management Practices
Manual. This shall be documented on the tree preservation plan.

(3) A tree removal and replacement plan prepared by a tree expert or
landscape architect, if required.

(4) An agreement by the applicant to post a performance
bond, cash deposit or other surety where required under this article,
in an amount to be determined by the Village Engineer and approved
as to form by the Village Attorney, to assure replacement of trees
shown on preservation or replacement plans which were not fully protected
or properly planted as required under this article and which do not
survive for two complete growing seasons after completion of construction
and that it not be released until after the foliage is out at the
start of the third growing season, at which time staff would be able
to verify that the tree(s) had survived.

B. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for new construction
unless the applicant meets all conditions for providing a tree inventory,
a tree preservation plan, a replacement plan and the posting of a
bond and/or cash deposit, when required.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.



=== Article VI ===

Village of Scarsdale, NY


info

Part II General Legislation

Chapter 281 Trees, Grass, Brush and Weeds

Article VI Severability





Get Updates

Article VI

Severability 

§ 281-26

Other laws; severability. 

§ 281-26

Other laws; severability. 

A. Article II, Distribution Lines, of this chapter is subject to any provision of New York State law expressly preempting local municipal regulation with respect to distribution lines. Nothing in this article repeals or supersedes any other Village law or regulation or modifies any outstanding franchise agreement between the Village and any entity.

B. If any provision of this law shall be declared unenforceable
in a final and nonappealable order of a court of competent jurisdiction,
such order shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions
of this article, and the remaining provisions of this article shall
remain in full force and effect.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.