Village of Elmsford, NY


info

Part II: General Legislation

Chapter 105 Brush, Grass, Rubbish and Weeds

Article II Notice to Owners





Get Updates

Article II

Notice to Owners 

§ 105-3

Order of Village Board to cut or remove. 

§ 105-4

Service of notice. 

§ 105-5

Failure to comply. 

§ 105-6

Reimbursement for costs. 

§ 105-3

Order of Village Board to cut or remove. 

Any person, corporation or association being
the owner of real property in the Village of Elmsford, outside of
incorporated areas, shall be required to cut, trim or remove brush,
grass, rubbish or weeds, or to spray with herbicides, cut, trim, remove
or destroy poisonous shrubs or weeds, upon their lands when ordered
to do so by resolution of the Village Board.

§ 105-4

Service of notice. 

[Amended 9-6-2017 by L.L.
No. 4-2017]

Whenever the Village Board adopts a resolution requiring the
owners of land to cut, trim or remove brush, grass, rubbish or weeds,
or to spray with herbicides, cut, trim, remove or destroy poisonous
shrubs or weeds upon their lands, the Village Board shall specify
the place, manner and time (not less than five days from the receipt
of said notice) within which such work shall be completed. A notice
of the adoption of such resolution shall be served upon such owner
or owners by ordinary mail addressed to his or their last known address,
except that no such notice need be served for subsequent violations
of this chapter within one year of the issuance of such a notice for
the same violation; in which case, the enforcing officer may issue
an appearance ticket.

§ 105-5

Failure to comply. 

Whenever a notice or notices has been or have
been served upon such owner or owners of the respective lots or parcels
of land to cut, trim or remove brush, grass, rubbish or weeds, or
to spray with herbicides, cut, trim, remove or destroy poisonous shrubs
or weeds, and such owner or owners shall neglect or fail to comply
with the requirements of such notice or notices within the time provided
therein, the Village Board shall authorize the work to be done and
pay the cost thereof out of general village funds to be appropriated
by the Village Board for such purpose.

§ 105-6

Reimbursement for costs. 

The village shall be reimbursed for the cost
of the work performed or services rendered by direction of the Village
Board, as hereinabove provided, by assessment and levy upon the lots
or parcels of land wherein such work was performed or such services
rendered, and the expense so assessed shall constitute a lien and
charge on the real property on which it is levied until paid or otherwise
satisfied or discharged and shall be collected in the same manner
and at the same time as other village charges.

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy.